<ID>20080310-52
<DATE>20080310<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/china-says-olympics-will-be-safe/a-5213885
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China Says Olympics will be Safe
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Chinese authorities have insisted that they will be able to hold a safe Olympics after foiling two terrorist plots, including one targeting the event. The other plot was apparently an attempt to crash an airliner from Xinjiang province to Beijing on Friday. The incidents have sparked a debate about the security arrangements in the country.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

The Olympics are almost five months away and China has been increasingly 
witnessing incidents, which are raising concerns about its security 
arrangements. In January, the police had shot two suspected terrorists and 
detained 15 others, who were allegedly planning to disrupt the Games.

In early March, an Australian travel group was caught up in a hostage drama in 
the tourist region of Xian. The kidnapper was shot dead by police after he 
released all but one of the hostages. Now, officials have foiled a suspected 
terrorist plot to crash a Chinese passenger plane. The plane was on its way 
from Urumqi, capital of the northwest region of Xinjiang to Beijing.

These incidents demonstrate that China has to prepare itself well in the 
run-up to the Games, says a terror expert Li Wie from the International 
Anti-Terror centre in Beijing:

"Terrorist attacks have been planned for long. However the nature of the 
attacks is changing continuously. No country is 100 percent safe. Terrorist 
networks, such as Al Qaeda, are not weakened. They always find ways to plan 
attacks. “

Anti Terror Measures in Place 

Interpol and the FBI have been assisting Beijing with the security 
arrangements ahead of the Olympic Games. Moreover, the country has itself put 
many security measures in place. During the Games, tens of thousands of troops 
of the Chinese People's Liberation Army will be on the alert, an estimated 
800,000 security personnel with special training will be deployed to protect 
the venues, and around 150,000 employees of security companies along with over 
600,000 volunteers will be stationed.

'Danger' with in the country

However expert Li Wei believes that despite this gigantic security 
arrangement, the greatest danger is from within china:

"The greatest danger is from a group which is called the East Turkestan 
Islamic Movement. It has been classified as an international terrorist group. 
In 1990s, the group had launched a series of attacks. Last year, the police 
destroyed a terrorist training camp in the Pamir region, which had been run by 
the group. So, stopping this group is going to be the main aim of the anti- 
terror fight here.”

The East Turkestan Islamic Movement is largely active in Muslim populated 
regions in China, such as the province of Xinjiang. The separatists Uighurs in 
the region have waged an insurgency for many years and are demanding for 
autonomy. China sees them as a threat, but many human rights groups believe 
Beijing is exaggerating the threat of violence in Xinjiang in the interests of 
exerting greater control in the area.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>