<ID>20080318-219
<DATE>20080318<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/indian-media-on-tibetan-protests/a-5212397
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Indian Media on Tibetan Protests
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Tibetans’ protests against Chinese rule have been reported widely in the Indian media. Editorials call for restraint by the Chinese authorities and criticize the New Delhi government for not speaking up for the Tibetans. They also cover the activities of the exile community in India in detail.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

The “Mail Today” advises Beijing to allow more cultural autonomy in Tibet:

It is one thing to construct great wonders like the Lhasa railway, but quite 
another to meet the aspirations of the Tibetans. A great deal of Chinese policy 
is motivated by a morbid fear of China breaking up. Yet, almost every country 
in the world recognizes that Tibet is a part of China. What the Tibetans, or 
for that matter Uighurs of Xinjiang want is essentially to preserve their 
culture. A celebration of diversity will add to the glory of a great country 
like China, rather than detract from it.

In India, home to the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, there 
is a lot of sympathy for the Tibetan cause- and for the Tibetans’ way of 
protest. “The Asian Age” observes:

It is also noteworthy that unlike agitations by disaffected populations in 
other lands, where the gun quickly comes into play, the Tibetans’ strategy is 
largely Gandhian. This is true of the protests inside Tibet and China, as well 
as those by their compatriots living in exile in this country who began a march 
from Dharamsala, seat of the government-in-exile, to the Tibetan border. Some 
of them carried portraits not only of the Dalai Lama but also that of Mahatma 
Gandhi, as a mark of tribute to the land which has given them as well as their 
spiritual head refuge for the last 50 years.

The Indian government is caught in a bit of a bind: New Delhi recognises that 
Tibet is a part of China, and has indeed given undertakings to Beijing that 
political activity directed against the People’s Republic would not be 
permitted from Indian soil. But at the same time this is a democracy, the 
world’s biggest as we so proudly proclaim, and the Indian people will find it 
hard to stomach any kind of brutal crackdown on peaceful demonstrators in Lhasa.

The “Times of India” is not satisfied with the government’s handling of this 
dilemma. It accuses New Delhi of “kowtowing” to Beijing by cracking down 
harshly on peaceful protests and arresting Tibetan demonstrators:

The ministry of external affairs has intoned that no “anti-China” activity 
will be permitted from Indian soil. It's an authoritarian trait to describe any 
protest as anti-national. India is a democracy. That principle isn't worth 
suspending just because Beijing is offended. Neither has it paid much dividend. 
Beijing's response to India's wholehearted backing of Chinese claims on Tibet 
and Taiwan has so far been meagre: recognition perhaps of India's claims on 
Sikkim, but not a settling of the boundary question in its entirety. China 
still continues to claim Arunachal Pradesh.

It won't hurt if New Delhi were to say to Beijing that while it fully 
recognises Chinese claims over Tibet, it won't jail people who think otherwise.

The “Hindustan Times”, too, thinks the Indian government should be more 
outspoken:

At the very least, India can be more supportive of the Dalai Lama’s call for 
Tibetan autonomy within China’s borders.

The Dalai Lama’s government-in-exile has always been featured prominently by 
Indian media. But this time around, it’s also the more radical groups within 
the Tibetans in India that get their bit of attention. “The Telegraph” reports:

The Dalai Lama’s restrained criticism of the Chinese crackdown in Lhasa has 
annoyed the Tibetan youth in India who now say his “middle way” has become 
irrelevant.

The Buddhist spiritual leader said the Beijing Olympics should not be called 
off. Radical youth groups that want the Games scrapped right away reacted with 
disappointment. The Tibetan Women’s Association too said the middle way, which 
it backed till recently, had “failed so far”.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>