<ID>20090610-7
<DATE>20090610<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/guantánamos-uyghurs-to-go-to-palau-not-munich/a-5213616
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Guantánamo's Uyghurs to Go to Palau, not Munich
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Having announced its intention to close the Guantánamo prison camp, the Obama administration has been trying to convince other countries to take in detainees who are up for release. In Germany, particularly, a debate had been going on about letting a group of Uyghurs settle here. They belong to a Muslim minority in China and fear persecution if they return home. But now, another solution seems to be on the cards: The Pacific island nation of Palau says it has agreed to temporarily resettle up to 17 Uyghur prisoners from Guantánamo.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

The news from Palau has come as a total surprise – also to Dolkun Isa in 
Munich, the Secretary General of the World Uyghur Congress: "It is of course 
very good news, because all the countries always refused to accept Uyghurs."

But Dolkun Isa is also disappointed. Munich’s more than 500 Uyghurs and some 
local politicians had campaigned for the Guantánamo Uyghurs to come to Germany.

"The people living in Guantánamo for seven years have psychological problems 
because of seven years in jail," he says. "Maybe they were tortured. If they 
come to Germany, we are ready to give moral support to them. We have some small 
companies, some small Uyghur businesses, which are prepared to provide jobs to 
them. So they would very quickly be integrated in the German society."

Objections in Germany

But there was resistance in Germany as well. Interior minister Wolfgang 
Schäuble, in particular, insisted that the United States had set up the 
Guantánamo camp in the first place, so the US should now also bear the 
consequences. Reed Brody from Human Rights Watch in Brussels thinks another 
factor might have discouraged German politicians.

"Apparently, the Chinese government considers these Uyghurs, who come from a 
part of China that is chafing under Chinese rule, to be potential terrorists, 
and has threatened and put pressure on countries like Germany," says Brody.

Palau feels honoured

Palau doesn’t have these problems, being one of a handful of countries 
worldwide which don’t recognize Beijing, but have diplomatic relations with 
Taiwan instead. Palau’s president Johnson Toribiong said in a statement he was 
"honoured and proud that the United States had asked Palau to assist in such a 
critical task".

Reed Brody from Human Rights Watch puts it this way: "Palau is a country that 
has very strong ties to the United States. It was United States’ possession for 
a long time and certainly is a country that is susceptible to American pressure 
if there is one."

Brody doesn’t think sending the Uyghurs to Palau is the best solution: "The 
Uyghurs are probably the easiest of the Guantánamo detainees to resettle. They 
are people who almost certainly were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
Even the Bush administration said they have no links to terrorist activities. 
One would think we could have done better and that Palau might be saved for the 
hard cases."

The Albanian example

In the past, Albania has accepted a few Uyghurs released from Guantánamo. The 
exile community in Germany and other places has helped them settle down, and 
now they are doing reasonably well, says Dolkun Isa from the World Uyghur 
Congress:

"They are very popular through the media, so all the Albanian people know 
them. Those people also integrated very quickly into the Albanian society. Some 
of them go to the university now, some of them work in Albania."

But at least there are some cultural similarities in Albania: most people are 
Muslims, as are the Uyghurs. The last census from Palau doesn’t mention Muslims 
among the 20,000 inhabitants. The Uyghurs are from a desert area which is 
further away from the nearest ocean than any other place on earth. They are now 
likely to find themselves in a divers’ paradise 800 kilometres east of the 
Philippines.

Author: Thomas Bärthlein
Editor: Grahame Lucas

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>