<ID>20130801-263
<DATE>20130801<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/whoever-produces-cheapest-wins-the-contract/a-16991176
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
'Whoever produces cheapest wins the contract'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
China Labor Watch reports tech giant Apple is producing a low-cost iPhone at 'high costs to Chinese workers'. The NGO's director, Li Qiang, accuses the supplier Pegatron of inhumane working conditions at its factories.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

DW: Apple came under fire last year because of revelations regarding 
precarious working conditions at the company's largest supplier Foxconn. The 
latest reports now claim that conditions at Pegatron factories are even worse. 
How has this happened?

 Li Qiang: The business practices at Apple supplier Pegatron do not only 
violate Apple's worker protection regulations, but also Chinese labor law. We 
have registered a total of 30 violations. Although the infringement of workers' 
rights is common practice in many Chinese factories, one can say that the 
conditions at Pegatron are much worse.

What do you consider to be the most serious violations?

 Chinese labor law stipulates that a worker is not allowed to work more than 
36 hours of overtime per month. At Pegatron, however, 100 hours of overtime are 
common. Documents recording the amount of overtime worked in the factories are 
manipulated, thus making it impossible for Apple to notice. Furthermore, 
Pegatron has employed many temporary workers, far more than the amount 
permitted by law. The company doesn't pay for these workers' social security, 
nor does it contribute to their pension insurance funds.
 
Li says Pegatron has violated more that 30 working regulations

 During the probation period, the workers' identity cards are taken away. They 
are retuned only weeks later in order to force the employees to continue 
working. Whoever decides to resign ahead of time is paid 600 yuan (about 50 
euros) less.

 Furthermore, the application process is marred by discrimination. Whoever is 
shorter than 5 feet or over 35 years of age is not accepted. Muslims, Uighurs, 
Tibetans and members of some other ethnic minorities are also rejected.

What can be done against worker exploitation in a globalized world? 

 The government and the companies are capable of changing the situation, but 
they are not really interested in protecting the workers. Local authorities in 
China go to considerable lengths to lure investors into the country, often 
disregarding violations of worker's rights. Ultimately, most of the people 
working in the factories are migrant laborers who the political establishment 
doesn't care much about.

 Companies want to reduce costs as much as possible, so there is fierce 
competition among suppliers. Whoever produces cheapest wins the contract. Apple 
speaks of four main factors in its supply chain: prices, quality, speed and 
social responsibility. But in reality only the first three aspects determine 
whether a supplier gets the order.

DW recommends

Apple faces labor violation dispute over iPhone supplier Pegatron
 

Joint venture eyes cheap smartphones for emerging nations

The world is longing for cheap smartphones. A new alliance between Apple 
supplier Foxconn and Firefox developer Mozilla plans to meet this demand by 
offering low-cost, web-based devices. (09.06.2013)
 

Apple hit by report on China factory conditions

Workers who make iPhones and iPads at Foxxconn factories in China are often 
overworked and underpaid, a landmark report has found. The Apple partner has 
pledged to tackle all workplace violations. (30.03.2012)
 

How difficult is it for workers to organize themselves in China? 

 There is only one official labor union in China. The finance authority holds 
the workers' membership fees and passes them on to the union. This is why the 
union represents the interests of the firms, instead of those of the laborers. 
Workers in China have no organization to stand up for their rights. 
International corporations must make social responsibility a priority and 
implement the working standards agreed upon.

Is the public pressure being exerted on Apple paying off?

 Apple has reacted with a public relations campaign. They believe it is more 
lucrative to invest a bit more in PR than to improve working conditions. The 
wave of indignation will soon recede, making the realization of stricter 
controls unlikely.

Li Qiang is the founder and executive director of the New York-based China 
Labor Watch.

 The interview was conducted by Haiye Cao.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>