<ID>20160414-124
<DATE>20160414<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/gwadar-pakistans-impoverished-colony-or-an-economic-hub/a-19185999
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Gwadar â€“ Pakistan's impoverished colony or an economic hub?
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Despite much-vaunted Chinese-Pakistani development projects in Pakistan's Gwadar city, the locals still have no access to clean water. And separatists have vowed to resist what they say is Sino-Pakistani colonization.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Last year, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth $46 billion 
(about 41 billion euro). With the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), 
Beijing aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South 
Asia in order to counter US and Indian influence. The CPEC would link 
Pakistan's southern Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang 
region. It also includes plans to create road, rail and oil pipeline links to 
improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.

 Pakistan is grappling with an acute economic crisis. Experts say the CPEC can 
certainly stir the much-needed economic activity in the country.

 But the much-vaunted CPEC has not impressed residents of Gwadar who believe 
they should be the main stakeholder of development projects in their port city.
 

Gwadar lacks fundamental necessities of life like clean water

 "Just look at the condition of our roads, our homes and towns; we still lack 
basic necessities of life," Farhad Baloch, a Gwadar resident, told DW. "Even 
drinking water is a rare commodity in the area. We are facing a drought-like 
situation," he added.

 K. B. Firaq, president of the Gwadar Educational Welfare Society, complains 
that the locals are being driven out of the city's port area to make way for 
Chinese workers and engineers. "The Gwadar fishermen are not allowed near the 
port boundaries. Thousands of fishermen have been asked to leave the harbor," 
Firaq claimed.

Exploitation of economic resources

 Balochistan remains Pakistan's poorest and least populous province, despite a 
number of development projects initiated by the government in Islamabad. Rebel 
groups have waged a separatist insurgency in the province for decades, 
complaining that Islamabad and the richer Punjab province unfairly exploit 
their resources. Islamabad reacted to the insurgency by launching a military 
operation in the province in 2005. There have since been reports of grave human 
rights abuses committed by the military and its intelligence agencies in the 
province.

DW recommends

Activist's murder spotlights army's abuses in Pakistan's Balochistan

Pakistani military's alleged rights abuses in western Balochistan province 
have come under scrutiny after the killing of activist Sabeen Mahmud in 
Karachi. Mahmud held a talk on the issue right before she was shot dead. 
(26.04.2015)
 

Brahamdagh Bugti: 'China-Pakistan deal usurps Balochistan's resources'

In an interview with DW, Baloch leader Brahamdagh Bugti says the recent 
multi-billion dollar economic corridor deal between Pakistan and China is aimed 
at colonizing the Balochistan province, and must be resisted. (24.04.2015)
 

China expands influence in 'economic colony' Pakistan

Xi Jinping's visit to Pakistan promises to boost the Islamic country's 
struggling economy, but experts warn there are many strings attached to 
Beijing's aid. Why does Pakistan need to be careful in dealing with China? 
(20.04.2015)
 

 Senator Mushahid Ullah Khan, leader of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League 
party, admits that the people of Balochistan are unhappy with some of the 
government's policies, but he denies that Islamabad is usurping the province's 
economic resources.

 "Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's government allowed a Baloch nationalist to 
become the chief minister of the province. Our administration has also launched 
a number of development projects for the benefit of the locals," Senator Khan 
told DW.

 "An international airport in Gwadar is being built. We are also constructing 
a 90-kilometer long road connecting Gwadar to the coastal highway, and 
establishing economic zones in the cities of Khuzdar and Zhob. Ultimately, the 
Gwadar port will benefit the whole Balochistan," he added.

Fear and optimism

 But nationalist leader Abdul Hai Baloch is skeptical about the government's 
claims, as he says the issue is more political than economic. He believes the 
Gwadar residents resent the CPEC because they fear that with the arrival of 
workers from China and Pakistan's other provinces, they will soon become a 
minority in their own town.

 Dr. Abdul Aziz, a Gwadar resident, echoes Hai Baloch's sentiments. "Our 
resources are being plundered, and we are being deprived of our livelihood. 
Many people had to move to remote areas after the government started the 
construction work on Gwadar port," he said, adding that non-locals were already 
buying land in the city. "More dislocations are on the horizon."

 "We should be the masters of our resources, but we are being treated like 
slaves. This will have catastrophic consequences," he continued.
 

Last year, China and Pakistan signed deals related to energy and 
infrastructure projects worth $46 billion

 A Gwadar Port Authority official dismissed these fears. "Two dams are being 
constructed to deal with the water crisis in the area. The locals will be given 
jobs. A 50-bed hospital is being upgraded to a 300-bed facility, and roads and 
other infrastructure work is being done. Who will benefit from these projects? 
Of course, the residents of Gwadar!"

 The Lahore and Karachi-based real estate companies appear to be cashing in on 
the situation in Gwadar.

 Ali Masood, a Karachi-based real estate agent, reports that business is 
booming with housing projects in Gwadar. "In some areas, a residential plot 
that was worth 12 million Pakistani rupees ($114,600) last year is now being 
sold for around 20 million ($191,000)," Masood told DW.

Security concerns

 But the trickiest part of the proposed Sino-Pakistani economic projects could 
be their implentation in the face of Islamist militancy and a protracted 
separatist insurgency in Balochistan.

 The Baloch separatist groups have vowed to resist these projects, claiming 
the CPEC is a further exploitation of their resources and rights.
 

Rights groups accuse the military of committing grave human rights abuses in 
Balochistan

Ruzhn Baloch, a senior leader of the Baloch Student Organization, an 
independent group that advocates Balochistan's separation from Pakistan, says 
the new projects in Balochistan will not be any different from the ones that 
the Pakistani government had launched in the past.

 "Today, Balochistan is the poorest province in Pakistan despite being rich in 
natural resources," she told DW. "We are against this colonization."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>