<ID>20160724-109
<DATE>20160724<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/sierens-china-erdogans-turkey-is-a-high-risk-partner/a-19424081
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Sieren's China: Erdogan's Turkey is a high-risk partner
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Turkey is an important bridge to Europe for China. The countries cooperate closely despite strained relations over China's Uighur minority. The recent coup attempt came at an inopportune moment, DW's Frank Sieren writes.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 China's government released its first statement the day after the coup 
attempt in Turkey 

. Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said he hoped thatTurkey's government 
would restore order 

 as soon as possible. The statement was only made when it was clear that this 
would indeed happen. If the coup had been successful, it might have taken years 
before bilateral relations could be restored to their current level. Chinese 
President Xi Jinping (right in photo) and his Turkish counterpart,Recep Tayyip 
Erdogan 

 (left), get on well.

 As a bridge between Europe and the Middle East and Central Asia, Turkey is 
strategically important for China's new Silk Road project. Beijing has been 
seeking partners and making investments along the ancient trade route for 
months. Istanbul plays an important role in Beijing's economic plans. It is not 
surprising that China is investing in Turkey's infrastructure and banking on 
stability so that it secures long-term access to the region and ensures a 
market for its goods.
 

DW's Frank Sieren has lived in Beijing for over 20 years

In 2014, a Chinese-Turkish consortium built a $4.1 billion rail link between 
Ankara and Istanbul. The plan is to pump another $45 billion (41 billion euros) 
into a 10,000-kilometer (6,000-mile) high-speed rail link largely built by 
Chinese companies by 2023. At the most recentG20 

 summit in Beijing, the Chinese and Turkish energy ministers agreed to boost 
their cooperation on nuclear technology. This will be mutually beneficial, as 
China will give Turkey an insight into its research and will itself build the 
power stations in Turkey, thus keeping out any competitors. (France is the only 
European manufacturer of nuclear power stations.)

 One strain on the relationship has been the situation with Uighurs in China's 
autonomous Xinjiang region. In the past, Erdogan has felt compelled to stand by 
the Turkic-speaking mostly Muslim Uighurs, whom Chinese officials accuse of 
separatism and terrorism. Uighurs and their allies have accused the government 
of cultural, political and religious repression.

 Turkey and China have both felt the menace of the "Islamic State." On his 
trip to Beijing last year, Erdogan guaranteed his hosts that he and his 
government would act against any activity in Turkey that could harm China. 
However, the question that people in Beijing are asking themselves is how much 
this guarantee is worth if Erdogan's own army rises up against him: How much 
stability can this president really guarantee? China's confidence in Erdogan 
has been dented. The government will likely become more cautious.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>