<ID>20130424-16
<DATE>20130424<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Clashes-between-police-and-civilians-in-Xinjiang-leave-at-least-21-dead-27748.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Clashes between police and civilians in Xinjiang leave at least 21 dead
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
 The incident in which 15 police officers and 6 civilians were killed remains unexplained. For Beijing, it was a "cowardly terrorist attack". Exiled Uighur groups deny the allegations.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) - Clashes between Uighur civilians and ethnic Han 
Chinese police broke out in the northern province of Xinjiang, leaving at least 
21 people dead. According to local sources, the violence broke out last night 
in Selibuya Township, near Kashgar, one of the most turbulent areas of the 
province inhabited mostly by ethnic Uighur, a predominantly Turkic and Muslim 
ethnic group.

Chinese authorities claim that the six civilians who died in the incident were 
suspected terrorists, but groups associated with Rebiya Kadeer,a Uighur leader 
living in exile in Germany 

 for the past three years for her pro-independence activities, deny that claim. 
Indeed, it is still unclear what actually happened.

According to the Xinhua, Communist China's official news agency, the incidents 
broke out in the afternoon in Kashgar, about 1,200 km from the capital Urumqi, 
when three community workers saw suspected terrorists armed with knives, hiding 
in the house of a local resident.

The workers warned their superiors but were captured by the suspects. When 
police arrived, they were attacked by the "terrorists", who killed the three 
community workers they held and set fire the house where they had corned the 
police. Eight suspected terrorists were arrested.

The province of Xinjiang has long been the scene of clashes and ethnic 
tensions. In 2009, it was Â placed under special rule by China's police and 
army, followingriots that had left nearly 200 people dead 

. After the bloody incident, hundreds of people were convicted and sent to 
prison; some people were given the death penalty.

Chinese authorities claim that the perpetrators of violence are Muslim 
extremists, but Uighur exiles counter that Beijing has exaggerated the threat 
of Islamic terrorism in order to justify its crackdown against the Uighur.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>