<ID>20090709-151
<DATE>20090709<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=15734
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Urumqi-is-under-control-thanks-to-soldiers,-the-death-penalty-and-publicity-15734.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Urumqi is "under control" thanks to soldiers, the death penalty and publicity
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Order maintained by 20 thousand soldiers. Death penalty for those who have killed, undermining coexistence between Han and Uyghurs. Campaign against "plots" of Rebiya Kadeer, accused of terrorism. Turkey will bring the issue of the Uyghurs before the UN Security Council. The fear in Beijing is that the ethnic problem melds with other situations of discontent and crises in the country. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews / Agencies) - The capital of Xinjiang seems quiet this 
morning, after the demonstrations and violence of recent days. The deployment 
of tens of thousands of soldiers has had the effect of stopping clashes between 
Uyghurs and Han, although there are sporadic incidents.

The moment of greatest tension so far was July 7, when thousands of Han 
Chinese attacked Uyghurs’ houses and shops, seeking their own justice for the 
violence suffered by other Han Chinese when the Uyghurs demonstrations last 
week, degenerated into attacks on shops and the burning of police cars. The 
Uyghur population accuses the police of having fired on a crowd of peaceful 
demonstrators, provoking their reaction.

President Hu Jintao arrived yesterday in Beijing, leaving the G8 summit in 
Italy, because of the dramatic developments in the situation, which could lead 
to interethnic clashes throughout the country.

Besides the deployment of the military, calm is also being maintained with 
threats. Yesterday, Li Zhi, Urumqi Party secretary, said he would seek the 
death penalty for rioters who resorted to “cruel means” and murdered people, 
threatening the coexistence between Uyghurs and Han.

The death penalty is widely used in Xinjiang against the so-called "Islamic 
terrorism" of the Uyghurs, an excuse that gives Beijing an iron grip on the 
questions of autonomy and justice for the Uyghurs, marginalized and persecuted 
minority.

According to international organizations, hundreds of death sentences are 
imposed every year against the Uyghurs.

In Kashgar thousands of students are under house arrest to prevent their 
participation in any event. The soldiers who occupy Urumqi, from tanks and 
trucks full of troops, use megaphones to launch a call to coexistence between 
ethnic groups. Even on TV there are images invoking friendship between Uyghurs 
and Han are being broadcast. Yu Zhengsheng, secretary of the Party in Shanghai 
and the city mayor, Han Zheng, were shown on television while visiting a Uyghur 
restaurant, chatting with the owner and preaching on "stability and harmony”, 
without which there cannot be “well-being” or “economic development".

According to a scheme that closely echoes the suppression of Tibetan revolts 
last year and the charges against the Dalai Lama, the Beijing government and 
the national media are pointing the finger at "external forces" and in 
particular the World Uyghur Congress and Rebiya Kadeer, in exile in the United 
States, for having planned and instigated the demonstrations and violence. 
According to Chinese newspapers, there is also "evidence" that the U.S. State 
Department funds Rebiya Kadeer for his terrorist plots.

The Kadeer, an entrepreneur originally a member of the Party, later 
disillusioned in her search for greater autonomy for the Uyghurs, was arrested 
in 2000 for having "revealed state secrets." In 2005 she received permission on 
medical reasons to abandon Xinjiang and sought refuge in the United States. Her 
family remained in their homeland continually subjected to pressure and 
arrests. The Xinhua and the Party have called her "corrupt", committed to 
"international terrorism", "separatism" and "extremist forces", eager to 
"sabotage activities to mark 60 years of the founding of the People's Republic 
of China", in October this year.

Meanwhile, the Uyghurs’ cause is gaining worldwide sympathy. Exiled Uyghurs 
have organized demonstrations in front of Chinese embassies in Japan, France 
and Australia. The Turkish premier Erodgan said yesterday that he intends to 
present the problem of Uyghurs in China before the UN Security Council. Turks 
and Uyghurs have historical as well as ethnic and linguistic ties.





The tension that began in Xinjiang worries China. There is only the ethnic 
issue hanging in the balance, but also the discontent of many groups of the 
Chinese population because of corruption, economic crisis and repression of 
dissent. The Xinjiang spark could inflame other crisis situations around the 
country. "In the context of China - said Calla Weimer, academic in Singapore -, 
when there aren’t avenues for the expression of grievances and repression, it 
all just simmers ready to explode".

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>