<ID>20120609-17
<DATE>20120609<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=24985
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Afghanistan,-Iran,-Chinese-aid-and-Shanghai-group-24985.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Afghanistan, Iran, Chinese aid and Shanghai group 
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Beijing is providing "sincere and selfless help" to Karzai in the form of US$ 24 million to fund infrastructure and scholarships. China is concerned with fundamentalist influence in Xinjiang. It will provide a US$ 10 billion loan for railways, telecommunications and energy pipelines to SCO member states. The group reiterates its opposition to the use of force against Iran, but calls on Iran to be "pragmatic and flexible" in nuclear talks.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing (AsiaNews) - The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), a group that 
includes China, Russia and four Central Asian nations, has granted Afghanistan 
observer status. Beijing has also pledged immediate aid to Kabul and much more 
once NATO troops leave the country in 2014. The group has also expressed its 
opposition to any use of force against Iran, which already has observer status 
in the organisation.

The two-day meeting in the Chinese capital, which ended yesterday, saw the 
participation of Turkey as a "partner in dialogue". With the Eurasian country, 
SCO now embrace countries from the Mediterranean to the Pacific Ocean. In 
addition to Russia and China, SCO includes Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan 
and Kazakhstan. Iran, India, Pakistan and Mongolia are observers.

Founded as a security community to fight terrorism, the organisation is now 
evolving into an area of economic cooperation. Yesterday, China offered a US$ 
10 billion loan for economic development to help member states establish 
railway, telecommunications and energy pipeline links. Member countries have 
also agreed to boost mutual economic relations.

For Afghanistan, acceptance by SCO is an economic and political windfall. 
President Hu Jintao told Afghan President Karzai that China would provide 
"sincere and selfless help" to the beleaguered country, including 150 million 
yuan (US$ 24 million) in aid this year for infrastructure and scholarships.

The two signed a strategic partnership agreement, under which China said it 
would encourage Chinese investment.

With NATO planning to pull out from Afghanistan in 2014, China is getting edgy 
over possible chaos in its western neighbour, as well as an increase in the 
opium trade and fundamentalism infiltration, especially in Xinjiang.

Hu said that SCO must play a greater in Afghanistan, but Russia excluded any 
military presence in the country.

During the summit, the Chinese leader met his Iranian counterpart, President 
Mahmud Ahmadinejad. During their talks, Hu asked him to be "pragmatic and 
flexible" in ongoing nuclear talks.

On 18-19 June, Moscow will host a new round of talks between Iran and the 5+1 
group (United States Russia, Great Britain, France, China and Germany) to stop 
Tehran from developing a programme they suspect might include a nuclear 
military capability.

Without an agreement, new and tougher financial and trade sanctions will come 
into effect on 1 July.

Iran has always said that its nuclear programme does not have a military 
component.

Iranian Ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency Ali Asghar 
Soltanieh recently announced that his government is ready to counter any fear.

"We are ready," he said, "to remove all the ambiguities and prove to the whole 
world that our nuclear activities are exclusive[ly] for peaceful purposes".

In a final statement, SCO said that the use of force against Iran because of 
concerns about its nuclear programme would be unacceptable and would lead to 
unpredictable circumstances in the region and the world.

Â 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>