<ID>20140616-182
<DATE>20140616<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=31367
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Death-penalty-for-Tiananmen-deadly-attack-31367.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Death penalty for Tiananmen deadly attack
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A court in western China sentences three people to death over a deadly car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October. Four others received sentences ranging from five to 20 years in jail.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews/Agencies) - Three people were sentenced to death for their 
roles in carrying outa deadly attack on Tiananmen Square last October 

. The Xinjiang Intermediate People's Court also handed a life sentence to one 
suspect, among eight put on trial for allegedly planning the attack. Four of 
those received sentences ranging from five to 20 years in jail, state 
television said on its official microblog.

The trial started on June 13, and the sentence came out today, said CCTV. It 
identified  two of the accused with names that sounded Uygur, the largest 
ethnic group in  the violence-racked region of Xinjiang.

Two people were killed and 40 injured when a car ploughed into a crowd at the 
northern edge of Tiananmen, while the three people in the car also died. The 
government had blamed Islamic militants for the attack on October 28. Among 
those killed were a Chinese visitor and a tourist from the Philippines were 
killed, along with the vehicle's driver, his wife and mother-in-law, according 
to Chinese authorities.

The attack was the first to strike Beijing in recent memory. It pointed to a 
new level of violence and lethal intent in the long simmering insurgency 
against Chinese rule in the far northwestern region of Xinjiang. It is home to 
the ethnic Uyghur, Turkic speaking peoples of Islamic religion, who have always 
sought to gain independence from Beijing. The central government, for its part, 
planted hundreds of thousands of Han Chinese in the region to try to make them 
the dominant ethnic group.  It also imposes serious restrictions on freedom of 
religion, the practice of Islam, the teaching of the language and the local 
culture.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>