<ID>20150303-145
<DATE>20150303<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=33606
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/China-sets-its-sights-on-economies-of-Central-Asia-33606.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China sets its sights on economies of Central Asia
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Beijing is investing in the manufacturing sector in Kazakhstan. Tajikistan receives $ 200 million from Beijing to for lead extraction. China’s goal is to limit Russian influence in Central Asia. Experts say China wants to infiltrate the vast market of the Eurasian Economic Union and contain the threat of terrorism in Xinjiang.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing (AsiaNews) - In recent months China has signed a series of trade 
agreements with the countries of Central Asia, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan in the 
lead, with the main aim of  counterbalancing Russian influence in the region. 
This has been confirmed by theEast Asia Forum website which has published 
Beijing's future investments plans for Kazakhstan.

Visiting the Kazakh capital on December 14, 2014, for the first meeting of the 
Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, 
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang announced a new economic agreement between the two 
countries, which is an investment of 14 billion dollars. This was followed in 
January 2015 by an agreement between Beijing and Astana to enter into joint 
ventures in manufacturing and other key industries, such as mining, petroleum, 
chemical, gas and transport.

Kazakhstan is the largest recipient of Chinese investment among Central Asia's 
former Soviet bloc nations. In fact, between 1991 and 2013, the country 
received a total of $ 22 billion.

 According to experts, these agreements come at a crucial time for the Kazakh 
economy, which has recently suffered a slowdown. Because of the political 
situation in Russia and the fall in oil prices, growth forecasts in Kazakhstan 
the have fallen from 5.1 to 1.5%. What's more, the slowdown of the Chinese 
economy has caused a decrease in demand for metals and other raw materials, 
resulting in falling prices. During the first half of 2014 exports of iron ore 
to China fell by 41%. All of this has led the Astana government to announce a 
new program of infrastructure investment to attract Chinese investment in the 
manufacturing sector, as was the case with the January agreement.

In addition to Kazakhstan, China has decided to invest in Tajikistan. On 
February 25, 2015, the Tajik parliament ratified an agreement between the 
government and the (Chinese-owned)  Sino-Tajik Mining Company that provides for 
the development of the mineral deposit of Zarnisori Shimoli. Lochin 
Fayzullozoda, vice-president of the State Commission on investment and 
management of state property, said that the Beijing government has allocated $ 
200 million for the the project. Under the new plan, the mineral deposit - 
located in the administrative region of Sughd (in the northeast of the 
country), currently slated to receive World Bank funds for a project to upgrade 
the roads - will generate two million tons of ore and 20 thousand tons of lead 
will be produced per year. Fayzullozoda added, moreover, that the project will 
create more than 2 thousand new jobs in the area.

Beijing's main aim is to increase Chinese influence in the region, taking 
advantage of the opportunities offered by the Russian recession and the 
diplomatic isolation of Moscow caused by the war in Ukraine. By increasing 
investment and establishing joint ventures with Kazakhstan, China may also gain 
access to the immense market of the Eurasian Economic Union (EEU), which came 
into force on January 1, 2015.

 Some critics of this economic integration between China and foreign countries 
argue that Chinese investment could be very risky. For example, China could 
transfer obsolete and highly polluting industries that it has decided to close 
in its own territory to Kazakhstan, causing serious environmental problems.

Other experts claim that the strengthening of economic cooperation between 
China and neighboring nations will complicate emigration for the ethnic Uighur 
Muslim minority from the Xinjiang region. Incorporated into the territory of 
communist China in 1949, the Xinjiang region is inhabited by ethnic Uighur, who 
speak a Turkish dialect, profess Islam and identify with the populations of 
Central Asia rather than the cultural traditions of China.

The ethnic group has always promoted the creation of an autonomous state, East 
Turkestan, and expressed full support for separatist groups at the time of the 
dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1990, with an enthusiastic welcome for the 
creation of independent Muslim states in Central Asia. The Beijing government, 
on the other hand, has suppressed demonstrations and imprisoned activists, 
encouraging the settlement of the Chinese Han majority in the region.

Since the 11 September 2001 attacks in the United States, Beijing has 
represented the Uighur separatist groups as affiliates of al-Qaeda terrorists, 
claiming they are being trained in military camps in Afghanistan and then 
returning home to threaten the Chinese territory. More recently China fears 
that the Uighurs may adopt the ideology and tactics of the Islamic State (IS) 
extremists.

The discriminatory policies implemented against this minority has caused a 
mass migration to the territories of Central and South Asia, especially through 
Thailand and Malaysia.

 Therefore, according to experts, the trade agreements that China has signed 
with the countries of Central Asia would strengthen integration and cooperation 
in the economy and help to contain a hypothetical threat of Islamic terrorism 
in Xinjiang.

 

 

 

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>