<ID>20090227-3
<DATE>20090227<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Protesters-who-set-themselves-on-fire-in-Beijing-are-Uyghurs-14602.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Protesters who set themselves on fire in Beijing are Uyghurs
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
They had come to present a petition. Today the group "Tiananmen Mothers" asked the government to reveal whether 127 people who disappeared in the massacre on June 4, 1989, are alive or dead. Experts: the government is not resolving the problems, and there are more and more protests, some of them with extreme actions.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

 Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) - The three Chinese who set themselves on fire in 
a car when the police stopped them in downtown Beijing were Uyghurs. Experts 
expect numerous protests this year, because the government is preaching social 
harmony, but is not resolving the problems. The police are responding by 
patrolling Beijing with helicopters.

It appears that the three, who were members of the same family, had come to 
the capital to present a petition about a property dispute. The parents are 
still being treated in the hospital for their burns, but there is no 
information about their son, who was taken away by the police. The reason 
behind their action is unknown; it may have been an extreme protest against a 
situation of injustice.

Next week, the annual session of the National People's Assembly begins, and 
for the occasion many Chinese go to Beijing to present petitions, asking for 
justice. Today the group "Tiananmen Mothers" presented a petition to find out 
what happened to 127 people who disappeared during the massacre on June 4, 
1989, when the army brought in tanks and fired on thousands of unarmed 
demonstrators who were occupying Tiananmen Square and calling for democratic 
reforms. 20 years later, it is still unknown whether these 127 people are dead 
or in prison.

The group, which unites the parents of young people who died or disappeared 
that June 4, is asking the government to verify all of the deaths, compensate 
families, and punish "those responsible for the killings." According toHuman 
Rights in China, the petition claims that "China has become like an airtight 
iron chamber and all the demands of the people about June 4, all the anguish, 
lament and moaning of the victims' relatives and the wounded have been sealed 
off." The request for official recognition of the killings has long been headed 
by Ding Zilin,a retired professor whose 17-year-old son died in the square. At 
the time, China limited itself to describing the demonstrators as 
"counterrevolutionaries," and still speaks of it as a period of "political 
tumult," avoiding further comments.

Another protest took place yesterday, when, in front of more than 100 
journalists, in front of the press office of the State Council, a man climbed a 
street sign, shouting "give back my political rights" and displaying a placard 
(in the photo). Finally, the police forced him down.

This year, there are many anniversaries of questions that are still open, and 
the police have begun to patrol Beijing with helicopters ahead of next week's 
session, to better control the situation.

The analyst Zhang Dajun observes that last year, the Beijing Olympics drew 
Chinese public opinion, but he expects that this year there will be many public 
protests, because "people's problems have not been solved. When people become 
desperate, they try extreme measures, like the burning incident in Beijing, to 
have their voices heard."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>