<ID>20150713-224
<DATE>20150713<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/sierens-china-the-emperors-gray-clothes/a-18582100
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Sieren's China: The emperor's gray clothes
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
With its new security law, the Chinese government is opening the floodgates to arbitrariness, says DW's Frank Sieren.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Such a law was not necessary. What is now allowed was already possible - the 
arrest of people that the state believes could disturb public order. Nobel 
Peace Laureate Liu Xiaobo was imprisoned for 11 years on charges of "inciting 
state subversion," while the Uighur professor Ilham Tohti was given life 
imprisonment for "separatism" and the journalist Gao Yu, who has worked for 
Deutsche Welle, was sentenced to seven years in jail for "disclosing state 
secrets."

 Clearly the hardliners in the government are strong enough to insist upon a 
formal change and to make their success as visible as possible. Before, they 
would simply do it, whereas now they are allowed to do it officially. They can 
"resort to all necessary measures to ensure state sovereignty and harmony."

 They struck immediately: At the end of last week - barely a week after the 
security law was published -over 50 human rights activists and lawyers were 
arrested or summoned or disappeared in a nationwide raid 

. Without any official explanation. They included the lawyer of the Uighur 
professor and Zhang Miao, a journalist who has worked with German weekly "Die 
Zeit." She was released almost immediately without charge.

Why now?

 Who is behind this? Does it indicate a change in the power relations within 
the leadership? Is this a concession allowing more space for maneuver with 
regard to economic reforms? Is the law a compromise that the hardliners are 
using to arrest lawyers on their own authority? Or are the arrests in the 
interest of the leadership, even that of Xi Jinping, the head of the state and 
the party, who in view of the big reforms and the economic situation wants to 
have stability at all costs?

 We do not know. What we do know, however, is that the party leadership is 
much more plural and divided than widely assumed in the West. We also know that 
if the arrests are met with indifference or even with acceptance by the 
majority of the population, it is because dissent does not have as long a 
tradition in China as in the West, meaning that most can put themselves in the 
shoes of dissidents only with difficulty. However, the government and party's 
arbitrariness and lack of transparency are getting on the nerves of more and 
more people - because every day they themselves are becoming the victims of 
arbitrariness and lack of transparency. That is making them angry.
  
DW correspondent Frank Sieren



 With the new security law, the government is ensuring that power relations 
remain in its favor by declaring almost all areas affairs of "national 
security." These range from territorial disputes in the South China Sea, the 
Antarctic and even space, to environmental issues, food security and religion. 
The intensified monitoring of the internet is not barred and nor is the 
stricter regulation of foreign firms.

Beijing is tightening the reins

 China is not the only country that has wrapped itself up in a legal gray zone 
to nip potential dangers in the bud. The detention camp of Guantanamo Bay is a 
similar example, but it is an exception in the US. Lawyers there can at least 
fight against it without fearing arrest. They even have a credible chance of 
obtaining justice for their clients sooner or later. It's different in China - 
more than ever since the security law came into effect.

 It's paradoxical that the more the country opens up and becomes connected to 
the rest of the world, the more Beijing is tightening the reins. Three further 
security laws are currently under examination. First, there is an 
anti-terrorism law which would force Chinese internet companies to build hidden 
back doors into their programs for the government. This recalls the beginning 
of the year when the Chinese authorities demanded that foreign financial 
institutes publish the source codes of their software for better surveillance.

 There is also a draft law to control foreign NGOs more strictly and one that 
would limit foreign investment even more. The same holds true here as for the 
security law. Taking a tough line on foreign companies and keeping Western NGOs 
on a tight leash might go down well with the population, but more arbitrariness 
and lack of transparency are a very high price for state and party leader Xi to 
pay. By doing this, he is only consolidating his power temporarily.


 DW correspondent Frank Sieren has lived in Beijing for 20 years.


<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>