<ID>20061128-131
<DATE>20061128<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=7870
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/China-continues-to-deny-justice-to-those-who-fight-for-human-rights-7870.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China continues to deny justice to those who fight for human rights
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
During Chen Guancheng's retrial, his lawyers complain key witnesses were kidnapped. Harsh sentences and beating inflicted on the sons of Rebiya Kadeer, defender of Uyghur minority rights. An anti-AIDS activist is arrested to prevent him from holding a public forum on the issue.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies)  China's justice system continues to strike the 
country's human rights activists.  The trial of Chen Guangcheng (an activist 
against forced abortions) has seen witnesses disappear. In Xinjiang, two sons 
of dissident Rebiya Kadeer were found guilty in tax evasion. In Beijing an AIDS 
activist is jailed for organising a public forum.

The blind activist, who focused world attention on coercive birth-control 
measures by village officials in Shandong province, was given an unusually 
harsh sentence of four years and three months in jail in August for damaging 
property and organising a mob to disrupt traffic. But he was granted a surprise 
retrial late last month for irregularities (three of Mr Chen's lawyers were 
arrested and replaced with court-appointed counsel). His retrial began 
yesterday with the disappearance of four witnesses and the brief detention of 
one of his lawyer.

His current defence team said four key witnesses for the defendant were 
"kidnapped" on Sunday by local officials, including villager Chen Guanghe, who 
was taken away by several unidentified people in front of the lawyers on Sunday.

More than 30 people blocked defence lawyers from entering Chen Guangcheng's 
home village of Dongshigu on Sunday when they were attempting to collect more 
evidence.

Chen's lawyer, Li Jinsong, complained that the trial took place in an 
atmosphere of intimidation.

After hearing other witness, the court adjourned to deliberate. A verdict is 
expected in a few days.

A court in Tianshan district (Urumqi) sentenced Alimu Ahbudurimu, son of Uygur 
rights activist Rebiya Kadeer, to seven year in jail and 500,000 yuan in fines 
for tax evasion.

Ms Kadeer was detained in 1999, tried and imprisoned for five years on charges 
of "leaking state secrets", having sent newspaper clippings abroad. Released 
after an international campaign, she now lives in exile in the United States, 
but Chinese authorities have taken various legal actions against her company 
and her children who are still in China.

Alimu Ahbudurimu, who is already in prison, was convicted of evading taxes for 
208,430 yuan as the attorney for the Ahkeda Trading Co. His brother, Kahaer 
Ahbudurimu, was also found guilty of evading nearly 2.5 million yuan in taxes 
but spared a jail term.

Two of her other sons were beaten by police after being detained in June; a 
third has gone missing after charges of subversion were levelled at him. A 
daughter is also under house arrest.

All this "is clear retribution for Rebiya Kadeer's advocacy on behalf of 
Uyghurs," said Nicholas Bequelin, a China researcher in Hong Kong for the New 
York-based group Human Rights Watch. "We have great doubt about the fairness of 
the trial and they [Ms Kadeer's sons] have not been able to get meaningful 
legal representation."

Yesterday instead police freed leading AIDS activist Wan Yanhai, three days 
after he planned to hold a public forum on the disease on Sunday, World Aids 
Day.

Nothing is known about the charges, but Mr Wan was detained by officials from 
the Public Security Bureau to "discuss" the workshop, the Aids Action Project 
said.

The group wants health authorities to provide help, including compensation, 
drugs and medical care, to the hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of 
people who received tainted blood. (PB)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>