<ID>20071207-67
<DATE>20071207<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=10984
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Death-toll-from-the-Rui-Zhiyuan-mine-disaster-in-Shanxi-reaches-105-10984.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Death toll from the Rui Zhiyuan mine disaster in Shanxi reaches 105
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Chinese police arrest two mine officials on charges of trying to cover up the accident, wasting precious time that could have been used to rescue trapped miners. Other accidents are reported in Hebei and Xinjiang.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Chinese police arrested this morning two managers
 of the Rui Zhiyuan coal mine near the city of Linfen, Shanxi province (central 
China), destroyed by an explosion that hasreportedly claimed 105 lives. The two 
are charged withtrying to cover up the accident. News reports say they delayed 
reporting the accident, wasting precious timethat could have been used to 
rescue the trapped miners.

So far some 15 miners are known to have been saved or to have escaped. Most of 
the other are thought to be dead from poisonous gas which followed the initial 
blast.

The official Xinhua news agency reports that at the time of the blast 120 
people were in the mine.

The State Work Safety Administration said Thursday the mine was properly 
licensed, was owned by the local government and had an annual output capacity 
of 210,000 tons of coal.

In addition to detaining the mine's managers, police have also frozen its bank 
accounts. 

Meanwhile, on Monday 11 people were trapped after a roof collapsed in an iron- 
and gold-ore mine in Chengde in Hebei province, in northern China.

In separate incident 12 people died of gas poisoning in the Xinjiang region in 
north-western China.

China's mines are the most dangerous in the world. In order to meet the 
country’s growing energy needs, 70 per cent of which are based on coal, mine 
owners push mining to its limits disregarding safety rules.

In early November the government released data on mining deaths. In the first 
ten months of the year 3,069 people were killed, 19 per cent less than last 
year. But for many these figures are not credible because many deaths go 
unreported to avoid mine closure as required by law. According to independent 
sources, the real number of deaths is around 20,000 a year.

In the last two years the government has approved new safety regulations, but 
enforcement remains lax and most of those responsible for accidents get away.

Moreover 95 per cent of party officials involved in mining accidents who were 
brought to trial last year were eventually acquitted.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>