<ID>20080804-83
<DATE>20080804<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=12918
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-sixteen-dead-in-a-terrorist-attack-by-Muslim-separatists-12918.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang, sixteen dead in a terrorist attack by Muslim separatists
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
This morning two grenades hit a check point on the North West frontier, a majority Muslim area theatre of violence in the past weeks. The news was reported by the state agency Xinhua, but AFP sources fail to confirm the episode.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) – The death toll from a morning attack on a border crossing 
in Muslim majority Xinjiang, North West China, is 16 dead and a further 16 
wounded.

According to the state news agency Xinhua (New China), at 8 am local time two 
attackers drove their truck into Kashgar border crossing, exploding two 
grenades. Xinhua sources report that the attackers were arrested and have 
confirmed that this mornings attack was of a terrorist nature. Initially the 
official agency reported two trucks involved in the episode, later confirming 
that one truck was used, but no further details have since been provided 
regarding the motives for the attack.

French press agency AFP reports that a police spokesperson in Urumqi – the 
capital of Xinjiang autonomous region – has stated that they are “unaware of an 
explosion having taken place in the zone”, refusing to confirmXinhua reports.

The presumed episode took place just four days ahead of the official opening 
ceremonies for the Beijing Olympic Games, ahead of which the Chinese government 
has repeatedly warned of possible attacks: a move that has allowed authorities 
to crack down even further on security across the country. According to colonel 
Tian Yixiang, chief of security for the Games, the greatest threat is presented 
by the Muslim separatists headed by a terrorist organisation fromEast Turkestan
. China has called in reinforcements to ensure security throughout the 
Olympics: joining the police who patrol the territory on a daily basis are 34 
thousand soldiers, 121 planes and helicopters and 33 naval vessels along the 
coast.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>