<ID>20080220-96
<DATE>20080220<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=11569
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-defends-its-right-to-root-out-terrorism-in-Xinjiang-11569.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing defends its right to root out terrorism in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
At least two dead and dozens arrested in a recent police raid in Urumqi. But human rights groups denounce that it is a pretext to undermine aspirations for independence. The survival of an entire ethnic group at risk.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – The Chinese government has defended its right to 
“battle terrorism” in Xinjiang, saying its stance was “no different from the 
rest of the world”. But human rights organisations denounce that the 
annihilation of an entire population is underway in the region.

State agency Xinhua reported that on January 27th in the Xinjiang capital 
Urumqi, the largest anti terrorism operation in over a year was carried out 
resulting in the death of 2 terrorists and 15 arrests, accused of collaborating 
with the Islamic movement of eastern Turkestan, an organisation which the 
United Nations has branded as terrorist. Instead Hong Kong’s Sing Tao Daily 
reports that at least 18 people were killed.

No further news is to be had regarding the episode because Beijing has imposed 
rigid control on all information from the region, considered essential given 
its vast energy resources and strategic position in central Asia. However some 
critics – among them the United Nations– accuse China of using terrorism a san 
excuse to quash peaceful aspirations for independence and to pursue a 
systematic elimination of the local people, the Uyghur, followers of Islam with 
their own language and traditions. Beijing gas favoured the immigration of 
millions of ethnic Han, conceding them trade incentives and access to positions 
of power. These have hit out at the local language and traditions and place 
obstacles in the way of the practise of the Islamic faith: women and minors are 
not allowed to enter mosques and Islamic schools are forbidden.  Moreover they 
have vastly reduced the number of pilgrims allowed to journey to Mecca.  The 
episodes of terrorism, which have been isolated, are being used as a pretext to 
deny vast swathes of the population their basic human rights.

In 2005 18,227 Uyghur were arrested because they “they were a threat to 
national security”.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>