<ID>20081117-72
<DATE>20081117<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=13773
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Uyghur-woman-forced-into-abortion-with-one-child-law-13773.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
 Uyghur woman forced into abortion with one-child law
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The Uyghur woman is expecting her third child, but the authorities say she can have only two, and have taken her to a hospital for an abortion. Her husband has denounced the case, and protests have erupted in the country and abroad.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) - In bed number 3 of the Water Gate Hospital in 
Gulja (Xinjiang), Arzigul Tursun, an Uyghur woman six and a half months 
pregnant, is under guard. The authorities want to make her have an abortion, 
because this is her third child, while she is permitted to have only two.

A nurse explains "the procedure": "We will give an injection first. Then she 
will experience abdominal pain, and the baby will come out by itself. But we 
haven't given her any injection yet - we are waiting for instructions from the 
doctors." There have been many protests over the health of the woman, who is 26 
weeks pregnant.

China has an official one-child policy, with severe fines and other sanctions 
for those who violate it. The Uyghurs, as an ethnic minority, can have two 
children if they live in a city, and three if they live in rural areas. Tursun 
is from the countryside, but her husband, Nurmemet Tohtisin, is from the city 
of Gulja (Yining in Chinese). They live in the village of Bulaq (near Dadamtu). 
All of this leaves their status unclear.

 Tohtisin explained - before the authorities confiscated his cell phone - that 
when his wife "fled the village to avoid abortion, police and party officials 
and the family planning committee officials all came and interrogated us. The 
deputy chief of the village, a Chinese woman named Wei Yenhua, threatened that 
if we didn't find Arzigul and bring her to the village, she would confiscate 
our land and all our property." She came back. On November 11, Rashide, an 
official on the family planning committee, brought her by force to the hospital 
in Gulja. The abortion, scheduled for November 13, has been delayed until the 
17th because of the many phone calls of protest from local Uyghurs and those in 
exile. U.S. members of congress have even intervened with Chinese ambassador 
Zhou Wenzhong. Now the authorities are insisting that the couple sign an 
"authorization."

Rashide explains that if the abortion were not possible, for example because 
of reasons of the mother's health, the couple would "have to pay a fine in the 
amount of 45,000 yuan (about 4,500 euros) - that's a lot of money, and they 
won't have it."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>