<ID>20090806-122
<DATE>20090806<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=15979
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Rebiya-Kadeer:-Beijing-is-psychologically-torturing-my-children-15979.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Rebiya Kadeer: Beijing is psychologically torturing my children
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Two sons and a brother of the Uyghur leader have appeared on television reciting Chinese criticism against her: inciter of the Urumqi revolts, Xinjiang separatist. Beijing has criticized all the countries that sympathize with her: United States, Japan, Australia, Turkey. "Beijing wants to impose its authoritarianism throughout the world." 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Melbourne (AsiaNews / Agencies) - The Uyghur leader Rebiya Kadeer has accused 
the Chinese government of "psychologically torturing" her children, who have 
written open letters criticizing their mother, and even appeared on national 
television to accuse her of having instigated Uyghur’s revolt in Urumqi last 
July.

Speaking with journalists, the Uyghur leader said her daughter Roxingul and 
her son Alim were forced to accuse her, and bend to the will of Beijing: "The 
method being used by the Chinese government is perhaps the worst kind of 
violence against my children! to force them to speak against me ... I think 
that this is a form of dictatorship imposed on them”.

Two days ago, in the early evening the children and the brother of Kadeer 
appeared on national television news. "The road my mother has chosen leads to a 
bottomless hole," said her son Alim, 33, in prison for tax evasion. "With such 
a strong nation [China], she will fail in her project of separatism."

A day before the Chinese media gave extensive space to an open letter by her 
children as they repeated the same accusations that Beijing has laid against 
Kadeer: of being the cause of the Uyghur revolt in Urumqi and wanting to divide 
the nation.

The revolts began on July 5, then degenerated into ethnic clashes between 
Muslim Uyghurs and Chinese Han, which led to the deaths of at least 197 people. 
China has detained thousands of Uyghurs, but according to Kadeer "in one night" 
at least 10 thousand people went missing.

"It's hard for me to imagine what kind of psychological torture they are going 
through right now," said the Uyghur leader. "When I was in prison, I was also 
forced by the Chinese government to say things against my will, in a video 
posted on a website."

62 year old Rebiya Kadeer, once a successful businesswoman and member of the 
Party, fell into disgrace when she began to seek more rights and autonomy for 
the Uyghur criticizing the government’s policy of colonization. For this she 
was imprisoned for 5 years. Released in 2005 thanks to international pressure, 
she now lives in exile in the United States and is a member of the World Uygur 
Congress.

After a visit to Japan, she has recently arrived in Melbourne to attend the 
International Film Festival, where a documentary about her life will be shown 
for the first time.

China initially tried to remove the film from the program, then, faced with a 
no from organizers, withdrew all Chinese films. In the preceding weeks Beijing 
also criticized Japan for having given an entry visa to Kadeer and reproached 
Turkey for having defended the Uyghurs. "China - said the Uyghur leaders - has 
also put pressure on the United States to curb my activities. I think that 
because of me, the Chinese government is trying in practice to impose its 
authoritarianism throughout the world. "

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>