<ID>20100304-181
<DATE>20100304<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=17796
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/China’s-defence-spending-rising-only-7.5-per-cent-17796.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China’s defence spending rising "only" 7.5 per cent
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Chinese military expenditures are second only to those of the United States, twice higher than India’s. Many experts believe that the actual defence budget is much higher. National People’s Congress spokesman criticises Obama for meeting the Dalai Lama and world leaders for using Taiwan to interfere in China’s internal affairs. He claims ‘solidarity and harmony” reign in Xinjiang.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) –China announced that its military budget would increase by 
7.5 per cent in 2010, the lowest jump in the past ten years. It will spend 
532.1 billion yuan (US$ 78 billion) over the year. Last year’s growth was 14.9 
per cent and ranged between 10 and 14 per cent in previous years. 
In today’s press conference, Li Zhaoxing (pictured), spokesman for the annual 
session of the National People's Congress (NPC), said that China has always 
pursued a path of peaceful development. He noted that its “defence expenditure 
in recent years accounted for about 1.4 per cent of its GDP,” compared to 4 per 
cent for the United States, and more than 2 per cent for the United Kingdom, 
France and Russia.

China’s military spending is second only to the United States, which aims to 
spend US$ 636.3 billion this year, and is more than double India’s budget of 
US$ 32.1 billion.

Wen Bing, a researcher with the Military Science Academy of the Chinese 
People's Liberation Army, said the slowdown in defence budget increase is due 
to the lingering global financial crisis and the world's improving security 
environment. However, many experts note that other governments in the region 
have either cut or held expenditure steady, raising concerns that a power 
imbalance was building.

As to allay such fears, Li said that the country's limited military force was 
only designed to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.

In reality, many observers believe that China underestimates its military 
expenditures. For example,China budgeted 480.7 billion yuan for defence last 
year but actually spent 495 billion. In addition, it does not include certain 
items in its defence budget. The Pentagon estimates that Beijing actually 
spends at least twice as much as it claims.

Whatever the case may be, “China will adhere to a path of peaceful development 
and defensive military policies,” Li insisted.

In an obvious reference to Barack Obama, he criticised some countries during 
the press conference for interfering in China's internal affairs. He also said 
that Chinese people were angry with the meeting between certain foreign leaders 
and the Dalai Lama, and that using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's 
internal affairs was“unacceptable”. 

By contrast, the situation in China's remote Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region 
was “stable”, he said, and that “solidarity, mutual assistance and harmony are 
being consolidated and developed".

In July of last year, a peaceful demonstration by indigenous Uyghurs turned 
into unrest against Han Chinese, who reacted by going on a violent rampage. 
During the civil strife that ensued, 197 were killed, thousands were arrested 
and tens of people were sentenced to death.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>