<ID>20131029-19
<DATE>20131029<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=29399
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Police:-Uyghur-suspects-behind-Tiananmen-accident-29399.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Police: Uyghur suspects behind Tiananmen accident
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Search is on for two men from Xinjiang and four cars with the license plates from the region. It could have been a suicide terrorist attack . Uyghur intellectual calls for more caution. AsiaNews sources: Not only the Uyghurs , but entire Chinese population is tired and dissatisfied with the leadership. Strong censorship on information.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing ( AsiaNews ) - Beijing police suspect that yesterday's incident - 
where a car drove into some tourists in Tiananmen Square , and then exploded , 
killing all passengers - was carried out by Uyghurs suicide terrorists. The 
incident occurred almost under the large portrait of Mao Zedong that dominates 
the front of the Imperial Palace , a few dozen meters from Zhongnanhai, home to 
many leaders.

The incident took place yesterday at noon and in addition to the three people 
in the car 

 (an SUV ) , killed a further two people, a Chinese man and a Filipino 
national, leaving 38 injured. Police and firefighters have cordoned off the 
area from public view.

 Today, the English edition of the Global Times, part of the People's Daily , 
said that the police have linked the incident with the Xinjiang and some Uyghur 
suspects . But the Chinese edition does not mention anything about Xinjiang .

 Yesterday, all day censors removed any news or comments about the incident 
from the web, allowing only the official version of Xinhua.

Last night and today the police launched a manhunt to gather information on 
two Uyghur men and four cars with the Xinjiang license plate. Ilham Tohti , a 
Uyghur intellectual , writing on the website Uighurbiz.net , pleaded for 
caution because it is easy to blame the Uyghurs and increase control over the 
ethnic minority.

 The western region of Xinjiang has been shaken by Islamic Uyghur nationalist 
movements for decades. For the most part they seek greater autonomy from the 
cultural and commercial dictatorship of the central government that has 
colonized the region with millions of Han immigrants and hundreds of thousands 
of soldiers.

The settlement also involves religion: Islam is strongly controlled in Uyghur 
schools, mosques, and society.

 In the past there have been incidents and clashes between Uyghurs and Han in 
Xinjiang, as well as attacks that the government in Beijing has branded as 
"terrorist" , though often conducted with makeshift equipment ( petrol bombs , 
knives , plastic , etc. ... ) .

 The Chinese edition of the Global Times today warns against "politicizing " 
the incident in Tiananmen too. Tiananmen Square, site of the infamous massacre 
on June 4, 1989 , is subject to a heavy security cordon to prevent even the 
slightest protest .

 In China, large-scale corruption d throughout the Party has led to over 180 
thousand "mass incidents" a year, in which different groups - farmers, workers 
, retirees, ex-military , ... - Clashed with police , often violently.

 A source for AsiaNews in Beijing said: "The party is seeking to water down 
this incident, but it reveals the profound dissatisfaction and fatigue of the 
whole population , not only of the Uyghurs".

Â 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>