<ID>20141025-176
<DATE>20141025<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=32523
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-coal-mine-collapses:-16-miners-dead,-11-injured-32523.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang, coal mine collapses: 16 miners dead, 11 injured 
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The tragedy occurred overnight near the provincial capital of Urumqi. The local government and the National work safety watchdog "are investigating." Families of the workers who "escaped" arrive at the site. Coal mining confirmed as China’s most dangerous job. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews) - The collapse of a coal mine in the western province of 
Xinjiang has killed 16 miners and seriously injured other 11. The tragedy 
occurred last night in Tiechanggou - a town near the local capital Urumqi - but 
official news has only now began circulating. There was a total of 33 workers 
inside the mine at the time of the collapse: according to the authorities, the 
six who are missing "fled".

 The police report into the incident has not named the coal mine.  Moreover it 
merely states that "the causes of the accident are currently under 
investigation." Even the National Work Safety Watchdog said it had opened an 
investigation, without giving further details. The families of the miners and 
some local reporters rushed to the scene but were turned away by security 
agents.

 Coal mining is the most dangerous job in all of China, which relies on the 
fuel for 70% of its energy needs. Despite the central government's rhetoric and 
promises, which has repeatedly declared it will pace stringent safety measures 
on mining activities, illegal mines have sprouted throughout the country. Often 
the owners do not follow safety rules, and send unprepared people with outdated 
equipment underground.

 According to the latest government statistics, in 2012 1,384 people were 
killed in mines. In 2011, 1,973 more died, all in accidents in coal mines, a 
reduction of 19% over the previous year. But human rights groups and Chinese 
scholars say the figure is much higher: many mine owners, in fact, do not 
report incidents for fear of economic losses, fines or plant closures.

 Very often local authorities are corrupted by bribes to turn a blind eye to 
the lack of security policies. Mine closures are, under the new President Xi 
Jinping, another part of the anti-corruption campaign launched by Communist 
officials.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>