<ID>20051123-13
<DATE>20051123<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=4698
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Bird-flu:-Impossible-for-China-to-vaccinate-14-billion-birds-4698.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Bird flu: "Impossible" for China to vaccinate 14 billion birds
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>

<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) Â– Vaccinating all poultry raised in China against 
bird flu "is impossible", experts say. The government announced on 15 November 
that it will vaccinate all poultry and, at the beginning of this week, it said 
60% have already been vaccinated. At the moment, there are 5.2 billion chickens 
in breeding farms and 14 billion will be bred over one year.

Experts have highlighted considerable technical problems. Above all, "the 
problem is it takes so many people to implement the programme across such 
immense territory," said Leon Russell, president of the World Veterinary 
Association. "It is not possible to provide medicine with the feed as this does 
not work on birds. And even if it did, the residue would contaminate the 
poultry meat and make it dangerous to consume."

Chinese television has shown workers spraying whole coops at a time, but the 
Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) said it had not heard of cases where 
this method had proven effective. Each and every bird must be injected with the 
vaccine.

Using an automatic injector, "each person can vaccinate about 600 an hour", 
said J.J. Giambrone, professor of poultry health at Auburn University in 
Alabama. However, he added, even if China has plenty of cheap labour available, 
"vaccinating 14 billion birds in the field by hand would be almost impossible."

Another difficulty is that 70% of Chinese poultry is raised in backyard farms 
spread across the territory.

In Vietnam too, the government started to vaccinate poultry in September. 
There are around 220 million birds and the authorities said that within a short 
time, vaccination would be completed in 58 out of 64 provinces. Hoang Dang 
Huyen, head of the Animal Health Department in Bac Giang province, said 
veterinarians visit households with more than 200 poultry for vaccination, 
while people with fewer fowl have to travel to an agreed location.

Another obstacle is the timing and costs involved in producing the necessary 
vaccines. China said it could produce 100 million doses of the vaccine per day, 
a claim which Giambrone dismissed as "nearly impossible". He said the vaccines 
are made in specific pathogen free (SPF) eggs, but there are not enough SPF 
eggs in the world to produce that much vaccine. If China is using regular 
hatching eggs, they "may be contaminated with bacteria and viruses," and this 
means they run the "risk [of] contaminating all their poultry flocks".

The use of fake vaccines is a widespread problem in China. Du Qingling, 
Agriculture Minister, warned this month that "the use of fake and shoddy 
vaccines will result in a disaster" and that only the use of certified vaccines 
can provide immunity to the virus.

It has been observed that in the case of outbreaks of infection, China prefers 
to cull birds at risk rather than to vaccinate them. So far, according to the 
government, more than 21.1 million birds have been culled. This leads one to 
believe that vaccinations are either still incomplete or else not easily 
applicable. Said Russell: "The best thing is to stop the spread by destroying 
the flocks that have bird flu."

Meanwhile, despite the vaccination campaign, new outbreaks of infection are 
practically a daily occurrence now. Today, the Agriculture Minister reported 
another three in the northern regions of Xinjiang and Ningxia and in the 
southern province of Yunnan. Poulty within a 3km radius were culled, more than 
8,000 birds in Xinjiang, 99,400 in Yunnan and 66,800 in Ningxia. Live poultry 
markets in Guangzhou and in Urumqi have been shut down, and Shanghai is 
expected to follow suit within days. The municipal government of Shanghai has 
ordered all hospitals to pinpoint and to monitor all patients with high fever. 
In Beijing, all those with temperature higher than 37,5 degrees Centrigrade are 
placed under observation.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>