<ID>20051116-99
<DATE>20051116<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=4637
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/China-admits-to-first-human-case-of-bird-flu-4637.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China admits to first human case of bird flu
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>

<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) Â– China has admitted to a probable case of human 
infection of bird flu while the virus continues to invade new regions. This is 
the first case since 2003.

China. Preliminary testing reveals that He Junyao, a nine-year-old boy from 
Wantang, Xiangtan county in Hunan, has contracted bird flu. Previous tests, 
undertaken by the local health department, "were negative" said Qi Xiaoqiu, 
director of the health ministry's department of disease control. "But the 
results from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are 
positive", even if further testing is required to confirm the results. The 
World Health Organisation's (WHO's) Beijing spokesman, Roy Wadia, said he was 
"not surprised" even if he is waiting for confirmation, expected within days. 
Meanwhile, WHO experts are currently in Xiangtan to conduct confirmatory tests 
while their colleagues study lab samples of suspect cases in Beijing.

The boy fell ill on 13 October together with his sister He Yin at the same 
time as an infection outbreak among birds in the village. His sister died 
within a few days and her body was cremated before any accurate testing could 
be carried out. The official diagnosis for both cases was of "pneumonia caused 
by unknown factors", but 11 days after the media raised doubts about this, the 
Health Minister requested WHO intervention. The boy was discharged from 
hospital last week. Now Qi admits that the previous tests "may not have been 
appropriate" even because "it was the first time the local laboratory conducted 
such tests, and their quality is limited." A 36-year-old teacher fell ill with 
identical symptoms at around the same time in a neighbouring village, but 
official health sources excluded infection, without giving any further 
explanations.

Yesterday two outbreaks of infection were reported in the remote north-west 
region of Xinjiang where more than 6,500 birds were infected and 320,000 culled 
in the capital Urumqi and Zepu county. The authorities have admitted to 11 
outbreaks since October (in Mongolia Interior, Liaoning, Anhui, Hubei and 
Henan). China has announced that it will vaccinate all poultry stocks, more 
than 14 billion animals. In Heishan county in Liaoning, Zhao Yonghe, head of 
the Badaohao Township Animal Husbandry Station, was arrested for certifying 
infected chickens as healthy.

Vietnam. The media has reported two other suspect cases of infection 
hospitalized in Hanoi with typical symptoms: a 15-year-old girl and a 
71-year-old woman. Testing is under way. The Agriculture Minister reported new 
outbreaks of the H5N1 virus in three other provinces, the central Quang Ngai 
and the northern Vinh Phuc and Bac Ninh provinces. In a bid to contain the 
infection, massive culling of poultry continues. Hanoi breeders said they 
receive 15,000 dong (around 95 cents of a US dollar) for every duck slaughtered 
but it costs 40,000 dong to raise one. However in the city of Ho Chi Minh, 
where a ban on poultry breeding is on, animals found in people's homes are 
culled and no compensation is given.

Scientists in Vietnam are undertaking continuous testing on birds in which 
they have identified a type of influenza virus, although it does not appear to 
be dangerous to man. The fear is that some strains could evolve into forms and 
pathogenes which endanger human beings. Today Vietnam announced it will produce 
its own vaccine to protect poultry.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>