<ID>20091012-76
<DATE>20091012<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=16562
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Six-sentenced-to-death-for-unrest-in-Xinjiang-16562.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Six sentenced to death for unrest in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The prisoners held responsible for murder and other crimes during the protests last July. The authorities evidently wish to close criminal investigations immediately and with exemplary sentences: in less than a month the death sentence is handed down. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Today in Xinjiang 6 more men were sentenced to 
death and another to life imprisonment for murder and other crimes committed in 
the street protests last July in Urumqi, the regional capital, which killed at 
least 197 dead and 1,600 injured according to official figures.

The Urumqi Intermediate Court of the People sentenced to death Abdukerim 
Abduwayit, Yeni Yusup, Abdulla Mettohti, Adil Rozi, Nurel Wuxiu'er and Alim 
Metyusup. Tayirejan Abulimit was "only" given a life sentence because he 
admitted the charges of murder and robbery and helped the police to capture 
Metyusup Alim.Xinhua reports do not specify the ethnicity of the convicted, but 
they appear to be Uyghurs.

The protests, which erupted in reaction to the murder of two Uyghurs by Han 
Chinese, resulted in veritable urban warfare between the two ethnic groups. 
Since then the city is guarded by the army and police. Today the area around 
the court was closed down to all traffic. State television showed empty streets 
heavily patrolled by police.

After the riots, the police arrested thousands of people. Uyghur groups in 
exile denounce that their plight is being almost totally ignored. In September 
the authorities announced charges against 21 people for murder, fire, theft and 
damage.

Two days ago there was a death sentence, a sentence to life imprisonment and 
others to numerous years in prison, against the ethnic Han held responsible for 
the murder of the two Uyghurs that sparked the protests of July (in the 
picture: the trial of two days ago.)

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>