<ID>20131010-142
<DATE>20131010<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=29245
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang:-139-Uyghurs-arrested-for-spreading-jihad-on-the-Internet-29245.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang: 139 Uyghurs arrested for spreading jihad on the Internet
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Beijing confirms the wave of arrests that started in late August. A farmer arrested for downloading books about separatism. For the World Uyghur Council, it is an attempt to "to suppress Uyghurs' use of the Internet".
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews) - Police in the Chinese province of Xinjiang have arrested 
139 people, all ethnic Uyghurs, for allegedly spreading jihad, the official
China Daily reported. The wave of arrests began in late August and concerned 
people who used the Internet "inappropriately". A farmer in Hotan was detained 
after he uploaded e-books about secessionism.

Beijing confirmed the arrests, pointing to violent incidents in the region to 
indicate a rising militant threat among the ethnic minority, as evidenced by 
the fact that many Uyghurs, it claims, fought in Syria's civil war and then 
returned home to put their militant experience into practice. These 
allegations, however, have not been backed by evidence.

Dilshat Rexit, a spokesman for the overseas-based World Uygur Congress, which 
Beijing deems a separatist group, said that the claims were a "total distortion 
of the truth" aimed at blocking Uyghurs from going online.

Those who were detained had only "expressed discontent with Chinese rule and 
systematic repression in the area", he explained. For him, China's goal "is to 
suppress Uyghurs' use of the Internet to obtain information and express 
different points of view".

Xinjiang province is one of the most turbulent in all of China. It is the 
homeland of ethnic Uyghurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim people that has 
always sought independence from Beijing.

The central government has sent hundreds of thousands of Han Chinese to the 
region to try to make them the dominant ethnic group. It has also imposed 
serious restrictions on freedom of religion, Muslim practices, the teaching of 
the indigenous language and the local culture.

Since 2009, a special system of Chinese police and army control has been in 
place, imposed by Beijingafter the riots in which nearly 200 people lost their 
lives 

. As a result of the violence, hundreds of people were detained and dozens were 
sentenced to death.

Chinese authorities have blamed the violence on Muslim extremists, but exiles 
claim that Beijing is "exaggerating" the threat of Islamic terrorism to justify 
the repression against the Uyghur people.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>