<ID>20140512-186
<DATE>20140512<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=31046
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Flurry-of-arrests-in-Xinjiang:-over-230-people-detained-in-past-6-weeks-31046.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Flurry of arrests in Xinjiang: over 230 people detained in past 6 weeks
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Kunming and Urumqi attacks shake Chinese authorities, who respond by stepping up arrests and repression. The accusation is that of "divulging video material or violent, terrorists". Experts divided over responsibility for attacks, which have not yet been claimed. And increasing restrictions on religion will only make things worse.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) - Police in the remote western province of Xinjiang have 
arrested more than 230 people in the last 6 weeks on charges of "disclosing 
violent or terrorist videos". According to theGlobal Times, which is close to 
the Communist Party, the authorities arrested 232 people for who "have 
circulated videos promoting terrorism through the internet and on portable 
devices".

The arrests came close to a series of violent attacks that have rocked the 
province and other parts of China. The province is one of the most turbulent in 
all of China. Its Uyghur Muslim minority, who number about nine million, have 
long sought independence from China. The central government, for its part, has 
brought in hundreds of thousands of settlers to make Han Chinese the dominant 
ethnic group. At the same time, it has severely curtailed Muslim religious 
worship as well as the teaching of the local language and culture.

Since 2009 Chinese police and the military have held the region under a 
special regime, which Beijing imposed followingclashes that left nearly 200 
people dead 

. As a result of various episodes of violence, hundreds of long prison 
sentences were imposed and dozens of death penalties were carried out. Chinese 
authorities blame Muslim extremists for the wave of violence. Uyghur exiles 
claim instead that Beijing is "exaggerating" the threat of Islamic terrorism to 
justify repression against indigenous Uyghurs.

For Beijing, Uyghurs are responsible for the recent spate of violent attacks, 
including the 1 March 2014attack at the Kunming railway station 

 by knives-wielding men that left 29 people dead and more than 150 wounded, and 
the 28 October 2013 incident whena SUV plunged into a crowd in Tiananmen Square 

, then burst into flames, killing three people. Finally, May 1, 2014 an attack 
on the train station in Urumqi - the Capital of Xinjiang - shortly after the 
departure from the President Xi Jinping caused 3 dead and 79 wounded.

According to the government, these are the work of " armed groups inspired by 
Al Qaeda", for example the Turkestan Islamic Party and the East Turkestan 
Islamic Movement. The attacks were inspired and even "orchestrated" from 
Central Asia, which the province borders. However several anti- terrorism 
experts reject this scenario, since the extremist leaders have never explicitly 
claimed attacks in recent months.

What is certain is that ethnic-religious tensions in the area are playing an 
important role in increasing tensions. According to a recent study published by 
Brian J. Grim, one time director of the Pew Research Center on religions and 
now chairman of the Religious Freedom & Business Foundation, Beijing is " wrong 
" in stepping up repression.  The analyst writes "data show that religious 
restrictions can increase episodes of violence, instead of reducing them".

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>