<ID>20160215-33
<DATE>20160215<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=36686
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Bangkok-bombing:-Confession-of-guilt-extorted-under-torture-36686.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Bangkok bombing: Confession of "guilt" extorted under torture
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Bangkok (AsiaNews) - Bilal Mohammed, the ethnic Uyghur who confessed to 
involvement in theattack in Bangkok in August 2015, 

 was reportedly tortured and forced to admit his guilt. This was stated by his 
lawyer, Schoochart Kanpai, on the eve of the Mohammed’s appearance before a 
military court. According to police, Mohammed and Yusufu Mieraili (only other 
suspect detained), spontaneously confessed their role in the explosion of the 
bomb which caused 20 dead and 100 wounded, including many tourists.

At the time of the confession - the lawyer said after visiting his client in 
prison - Mohammed "was tortured and put under pressure. This is why he 
confirmed the charges. He goes on to say that he had no involvement in the 
case. The only charge that he admits is that of illegal immigration. "

Through its spokesman, the members of the ruling military junta said they were 
"quite sure that nothing happened to the suspects while they were under arrest."

Mihammed and Mieraili were indicted in 

 November 2015 for 10 counts (including premeditated murder and conspiracy) but 
not for terrorism. The Bangkok authorities, although the investigation 
suggested it, immediately discarded the hypothesis of terrorism to avoid 
affecting the tourism sector and damage the country's economy. During the 
preliminary hearing he two neither confirmed nor denied the charges due to 
translation problems.

Last August’s attack has never been claimed. The fact the two leading suspects 
were Uyghur increased suspicions that is was revenge for theforced extradition 

 suffered by the Muslim minority in July.

Police investigations have repeatedly been criticized by the population and 
experts. While investigations were still ongoing, the first of September,police 
pocketed the reward 

 (85 thousand dollars). On September 29, the former head of the department Gen. 
Poompunmuang declared the "case closed" and handed over another 82 thousand 
dollars in prize money for his men.

Moreover, the alleged "mastermind" of the attack, identified as Izaan, is 
still at large along with 15 other suspects (all Uyghurs). For these reasons, a 
BangkokAsiaNews source described the entire investigation "a joke".

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>