<ID>20060913-26
<DATE>20060913<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-accuses-Nobel-peace-candidate-Rebiya-Kadeer-of-terrorism-7196.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing accuses Nobel peace candidate Rebiya Kadeer of terrorism
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>

<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Beijing (AsiaNews)  China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, yesterday 
accused an exiled politician Rebiya Kadeer, a candidate for the 2006 Nobel 
Peace Prize, of maintaining links with terrorist organisations and attempting 
to undermine China's stability.

Qin said Kadeer  who belongs to the member of the Turkic-speaking Uighur 
minority  was seeking to divide the northern province of Xinjiang from the 
rest of China together with "known terrorist organizations".

The spokesman said: "She was arrested for endangering national security and 
sentenced. She connives with terrorist forces abroad and engages in 
anti-Chinese secessionist movements."

Rebiya Kadeer was released from imprisonment in China on 17 March 2005, 
whereupon she asked for and obtained refugee status in the United States, where 
she now lives. The 58-year-old woman was the director of an established trade 
company as well as member on the Chinese People's Political Consultative 
Conference for Xinjiang. She was arrested in 1999 for spreading news abroad 
that was defined by China as "material containing state secrets".

Condemned to eight years in prison, she was released a few days before the 
visit of the American Secretary of State to Beijing, just when America declared 
it would not present a motion critical of China at the United Nations Human 
Rights Commission in Geneva.

Although the prison guards never laid a finger on her, she described the abuse 
of other political prisoners, who were beaten until they were lame. After her 
release, she recalled a 96-year-old Uighur woman who was in prison without 
knowing why. The guards would torture prisoners within earshot to frighten her.

To hit back at the woman because of her continued denunciations from abroad, 
on 11 May last year, Chinese police arrested two employees of her firm, the 
Kadeer trade centre, and a few days later, one of her sons, Ablikim Abdiriyim, 
disappeared. He had already been imprisoned in a laogai from 1999 to 2001.

Xinjiang has 19 million inhabitants, including eight million Uighurs. They are 
calling for more autonomy but some groups want to restore the independence 
enjoyed by the region from 1938 to 1949, when it was called East Turkestan. 
Beijing cracks down on all separatist groups with implacable violence, accusing 
them of collusion with Islamic fundamentalism coming from Pakistan and 
Afghanistan.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>