<ID>20070108-69
<DATE>20070108<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Chinese-police-kill-18-%E2%80%9Cterrorists%E2%80%9D-in-Xinjiang-8180.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Chinese police kill 18 “terrorists” in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The raid, occurred Friday, was publicized today by the police. According to China, Muslim separatists are linked with al- Qaeda. But many critics accuse China of using the excuse of terrorism to suppress religion and Uighur identity.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing  (AsiaNews/Agencies) - Chinese police raided an alleged terrorist camp 
killing 18 suspects and arresting 17 in the western Xinjiang region, near the 
border with Pakistan.   Police sources said the raid occurred Friday at a 
training camp run by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). One police 
officer was killed and another was injured in the shoot-out. Police are also 
searching for suspects who are believed to have escaped during the raid. They 
found 22 grenades and material for 1,500 more.   The camp was located in the 
Pamir Plateau, a sprawling high-altitude section of China's Xinjiang Autonomous 
Region near the borders of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan.   According to 
the Chinese authorities, militants among the region's dominant ethnic Uighurs 
are leading a violent Islamic separatist movement in Xinjiang. The Uighurs are 
Turkic-speaking Muslims with a language and culture distinct from the majority 
of Chinese.   But critics – and the UN among them - accuse Beijing of using the 
excuse of terrorism to crack down on peaceful pro-independence sentiment and 
expressions of Uighur identity.   China occupied Xinjiang at the end of the 
communist revolution in 1949. Since then millions of Chinese migrants have been 
moved to Xinjiang to colonize the society and the economy.   The Religious 
Affairs Bureau has put restrictions on the religious practice. Minors and women 
 are not allowed to go to mosques and Islamic schools are forbidden. Recently, 
the Chinese authorities have put restrictions also on the number of pilgrims 
allowed to go to Mecca.   China says ETIM is one of the region's most violent 
groups, labelling it a terrorist organization and alleging that it has links to 
al-Qaida. Two years ago, China claimed that Muslim separatist groups and 
individuals in western China had carried out 260 attacks since 1995, killing 
160 people and injuring 440.   According to a local newspaper, in 2005 in 
Xinjiang China arrested18.227 Uygurs for "threatening national security". 
<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>