<ID>20140927-72
<DATE>20140927<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/opinion-china-needs-medicine-in-xinjiang-not-morphine/a-17958664
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Opinion: China needs medicine in Xinjiang, not morphine
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
After the sentencing of Ilham Tohti, a moderate government critic, to life in prison, the conflicts in western China's restive Xinjiang province are likely to get worse, says DW columnist Frank Sieren.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 With this week's sentencing of Ilham Tohti 

, an academic who has been campaigning for the rights of the Muslim Uighur 
minority in China's restive Xinjiang province - but explicitly not for the 
western region's independence - the Chinese justice system made the wrong 
decision at the wrong time.

Tohti , 44, 
ran the website Uighur Online, on which he has been accused of inciting his 
Uighur compatriots to violence. These claims have not been substantiated by the 
evidence. The economics professor last taught at Beijing's Minzu University 
and, according to the charges against him, also organized and led separatist 
groups.

 As "proof," the Chinese authorities produced writings published by Tohti on 
his website, along with teaching material with which he, according to state 
news agency Xinhua, "bewitched and compelled" young students to work for his 
website. He is also said to have "built up a criminal syndicate." Seven 
students were arrested along with Tohti as part of his "separatist group."

 In a trial that lasted just two days, the highest court in Urumqi, the 
capital of Xinjiang , sentenced Tohti to life imprisonment. Apart from the fact 
that the trial was not transparent even by Chinese standards, this case again 
makes it clear that China is still far from a stable and comprehensive rule of 
law.

Radicalization fears
 

DW columnist Frank Sieren

The possible consequences of this decision - whether dictated by Beijing or 
not - must not be underestimated. The ruling will drive liberal Uighurs 
underground and radicalize them. The conflict in the country's far west will 
not ease any time soon. The Xinjiang Communist Party's dealings with Tohti are 
further proof that its strategy is deterrence, at any cost - even if it means 
ratcheting up the pressure. Any type of platform, any kind of role model for 
the Uighurs, is immediately stifled. This is the lesson that the hardliners in 
the Chinese government have learned from the success of the Dalai Lama in 
Tibet. But they're acting like a doctor who has injected morphine, only to 
believe the illusion that the patient has been cured.

 More than ever, Uighurs are feeling discriminated against by Beijing and fear 
that their culture is being increasingly stifled by the Han Chinese, who are 
moving to the region from the east. It's hard to say exactly how many of the 
Uighurs are secretly in solidarity with the terrorists, who want to use ever 
increasing attacks to force the government in Beijing to relent.

 Since the 2009 uprising, battle lines have hardened. A car bomb that exploded 
in October 2013 atBeijing's Tiananmen Square 

 has been attributed to the Uighurs. Bloody attacks have been directed not only 
against Chinese institutions, but also more unpredictable targets - in recent 
months,a train station in Kunming 

 and a market in Urumqi.

Potential gateway for international terrorism

 Beijing is preparing itself for attacks that are more frequent and 
"professional." Xinjiang province, which shares a border with Pakistan and 
Afghanistan, has become a potential gateway for international terror. Recently, 
the terrorist organization "Islamic State" ("IS") singled out China as one of 
Islam's greatest enemies.

Beijing should do everything possible 

 to ensure that the number of supporters of "IS" and other foreign terrorist 
groups in Xinjiang remains as small as possible. But much of what has happened 
in recent months appears to be counterproductive to this goal. The local 
population in Xinjiang has been called on to report suspicious neighbors with 
long beards to the authorities, while Muslim officials were prohibited from 
fasting during Ramadan.

 No wonder that activists are now comparing Tohti to South African leader 
Nelson Mandela, who spent 27 years in prison under the apartheid regime before 
becoming president in 1994. However, the Communist Party has also taken steps 
in the right direction: a new project will provide financial support to Han 
Chinese and Uighurs who share a house or marry. These are measures that will 
actually strengthen mutual understanding - unless roommates or spouses find 
themselves at odds over Tohti's sentence.

DW columnist Frank Sieren has lived in Beijing for the last 20 years.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>