<ID>20090401-17
<DATE>20090401<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Party-official-issues-urgent-call-for-democratic-reforms-14883.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Party official issues urgent call for democratic reforms
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Within the Communist Party itself, a growing number of voices are calling for political reforms, less censorship, and room for dissent. They are applying pressure to the leaders, who want to talk only about the economy. The police "sequester" a signer of Charter 08 for hours.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

 Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) - China will be making a serious mistake if it 
concentrates only on economic problems, and sidelines the debate over greater 
democracy. This is the opinion of Yu Keping, a high-ranking official in the 
Communist Party and the deputy director of the Central Compilation and 
Transition Bureau, an important CP think tank, published today inChina Comment, 
a biweekly magazine published byXinhua.

Yu does not contest the centrality of the CP, nor the necessity of order, 
obedience, and centralization in favor of central power, but he maintains that 
"incremental democracy characterised by some sort of radical reform" is needed.

Although he does not suggest any specific reforms, the position is important 
because it stands apart from the official one, repeated recently by Prime 
Minister Wen Jiabao, who is focusing on dealing with the economic crisis and is 
setting aside any discussion of reform. Wen says that Western democracy is not 
suitable for the country, and that democratic change must have Chinese 
characteristics to reflect the country's situation, without explaining what 
these "Chinese characteristics" are.

 A growing number of experts observe that China must resume its journey toward 
political and democratic reforms. At the beginning of March, Bao Tong, the 
personal secretary and friend of former prime minister Zhao Ziyang, sent a 
letter to the Chinese parliament illustrating possible reforms (seeBao Tong: 
Absolute power of the Party will suffocate the people and the economy 
). 

 In February, a group of old members of the CP wrote an open letter to 
President Hu Jintao and to the Permanent Committee of the Party, calling for 
the reconstitution of a commission to study political reforms, like the one 
instituted in 1986 and headed by Zhao Ziyang, which was dissolved in 1989 after 
the massacre in Tiananmen Square, and fell into disgrace together with Zhao. 
The authors (including Li Rui, the former secretary of Mao Zedong, former 
propaganda chief Zhu Houze, former media industry director Du Daozheng, the 
lawyer Zhang Sizhi, and the economist Gao Shanquan) also advise loosening 
censorship of the media and permitting an organized opposition, in the 
conviction that only greater democracy and transparency can permit overcoming 
the economic crisis and stopping the widespread corruption.

 But at the annual meeting of the National People's Congress, in March, no 
room was given to proposals for democratic reforms. Instead, Beijing continues 
to persecute any voice of dissension from the official line: yesterday, the 
famous writer Jiang Qisheng was taken from his home by the police, who also 
confiscated two computers, books, and his credit card. They interrogated him 
for more than six hours without any real accusation, solely because, from 
telephone surveillance and from correspondence, it emerged that he was writing 
an article to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the massacre in Tiananmen 
Square, something that they warned him not to do. Jiang, who was previously 
arrested over the protests in 1989 (in the photo) and for having written a 
commemorative article in 1999, is also a signer of Charter 08, the document 
published last December that calls upon the authorities to grant greater 
democracy and respect for human rights. In response, the police have 
interrogated and arrested many of the signers, including the dissident Liu 
Xiaobo, who has been detained since December.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>