<ID>20090905-8
<DATE>20090905<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Normal-life-resumes-in-Urumqi,-a-day-after-threatened-ethnic-clashes-16243.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
"Normal" life resumes in Urumqi, a day after threatened ethnic clashes
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Tens of thousands of Han for 2 days took to the streets to protest against hundreds of mysterious attacks on bystanders stabbed with a syringe. Clashes and 5 deaths two days ago. The police have stopped more than 1,000 who were trying to penetrate Uyghur neighbourhoods. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
  
 

Beijing (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Today in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, 
restrictions on traffic have been removed: private cars and public transport is 
moving regularly, many shops are open and many people have returned to the 
streets. At least 600 police officers patrol the roads and thousands more are 
ready to step in after protests caused violent clashes with at least 5 dead and 
14 wounded two days ago. Hantenggeli mosque in the city centre, closed 
yesterday despite the Islamic holidays, for fear of clashes, has been reopened.

Tens of thousands protested on September 3, mainly ethnic Han, worried about 
mysterious attacks by unknown persons armed with hypodermic syringes with which 
they "stabbed" passersby. The media have spoken of 513 injuries since 
mid-August. Assurance from authorities that no one has been infected or 
poisoned, and that does not appear that the syringes contain harmful substances 
has not been enough. There is no definite news of the clashes: the deputy mayor 
Zhang Hong has only added that among the 5 "dead in the clashes," were "2 
innocent people", without giving further explanation.

Yesterday there were more protests and the police used barricades and launched 
tear gas to prevent thousands penetrating Uyghur neighbourhoods.  

Public opinion among Han and even local officials blame the attacks on the 
minority Uyghur. The Minister of Public Security Meng Jianzhu, who was in 
Urumqi yesterday to better monitor the situation, says that these attacks want 
to damage the unity of the city and are "instigated by ethnic separatist 
forces," as a continuation of protests in July. Then tens of thousands of 
Uyghurs took to the streets to protest against their mistreatment and 
marginalization. Peaceful demonstrations turned into open clashes with police 
and the Han population, with nearly 200 deaths, mostly Han, and thousands 
injured.

The Chinese authorities have encouraged the immigration of Han to the region, 
allocating them seats of power and facilitating them in trade. Now the Han are 
in the majority in the province and the native Uyghur feel strangers in their 
home and accuse Beijing of trying to force their language and traditions into 
extinction and of taking away oil and other natural resources for the benefit 
of other provinces. The tension between the ethnic groups has been growing for 
years, but there had never been as violent protests as those in July.

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>