<ID>20110719-25
<DATE>20110719<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-Chinese-police-kill-dozens-of-Uyghurs--22137.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang, Chinese police kill dozens of Uyghurs 
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
According to authorities, a "terrorist group" set fire to police station in Hotan and was arrested. Different version of the World Uighur Congress, they "protesting against the forced requisitioning of land and indiscriminate arrests and were massacred." 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

 Hotan (AsiaNews) - Chinese police opened fire on a group of Uyghur 
demonstrators in the northern province of Xinjiang who were protesting against 
the forced confiscation of their lands and indiscriminate arrests against 
members of the ethnic minority, one of the most feared by Beijing.

 According to official sources, the protesters set fire to a police station in 
Hotan: 2 demonstrators, 2 "hostages" and a policeman died in the clashes, and 
now the situation is "under control". For the World Uighur Congress, a 
nongovernmental organization based in Germany, the dead were at least 20.

 Hou Hanmin, head of regional information, spoke of an "organized terrorist 
action. The rioters had explosive devices and grenades. First they raided the 
headquarters of the local office for industry, commerce and taxation, which is 
located next to the police station, and wounded two people. When they realized 
that they were not the right targets, they attacked the police post from the 
ground floor to the second floor where they hung a banner with separatist 
messages. "

 According to the Congress, however, the police opened fire on people 
attending a peaceful protest, triggering clashes. In addition to the victims, 
the group has reported about 70 arrests. "To prevent further destabilization, 
the Chinese authorities should immediately end the systematic repression of the 
Uyghur people."

 Hotan is a city of about 300 thousand inhabitants, 88% belonging to ethnic 
minorities. Xinjiang has long been the scene of tension and violence that the 
Beijing government attributes to "separatist groups linked to Al Qaeda" that 
aim to create an independent state of East Turkestan. The Uyghurs, the region's 
indigenous Turkish-speaking Muslim people constitute less than half the 
population, after decades of immigration from other areas of the People's 
Republic.

 In the last few years protests against restrictions imposed by the central 
authorities on the minority have become increasingly frequent. In July 2009, 
the capital of Xinjiang, Urumqi, was rocked by a wave of violence that caused 
nearly 200 deaths. Since then, nine people were put to death for instigating 
the riots, hundreds were arrested and prosecuted.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>