<ID>20090706-87
<DATE>20090706<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/german-european-officials-react-to-riots-in-china/a-4460693
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
German, European officials react to riots in China
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
EU leaders have spoken out against riots in China's Xinjiang region that have claimed the lives of at least 150 people. Authorities say the initially peaceful protest turned violent when police attempted to break it up.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Hans-Gert Poettering, president of the European parliament, has expressed 
grave concern about the bloody clashes in Xinjiang. In a statement released by 
his office, Poettering described reports about how the protests had been 
handled as "deeply disturbing." He called on both sides to exercise calm and 
restraint and urged the Chinese authorities to fully respect human rights, 
"especially the right to freedom of expression and peaceful demonstration."

In an interview with DW-TV, German Human Rights Commissioner Guenther Nooke on 
Monday also spoke out against the eruption of violence between China and 
Uighurs in the Xinjiang province.

Deutsche Welle: How does the German government view the events in the Xinjiang 
province?

Guenther Nooke: We have not been in a position to come to an official 
assessment because not enough information has been made available yet, but of 
course we know that there have been ongoing problems with the Uighurs because 
they are seen by the leaders in Beijing, and by the Chinese in general, as 
suspected terrorists. This has led to tensions between the Han Chinese and the 
Uighurs.

Guenther Nooke, Germany's human rights commissioner

What sort of influence can the German government exercise?

I think we have to call on the Beijing leadership to act in accordance with 
the rule of law, even if there are grey areas, and properly investigate 
situations like the one in the toy factory in southern China, which seems to 
have sparked the unrest, and that they refrain from reacting with 
disproportionate force. That is unacceptable, no matter what factors may have 
contributed to it, including the possibility that demonstrators committed acts 
of violence.

Interview: Dirk Jacobs (mrm)

Editor: Chuck Penfold

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>