<ID>20101216-238
<DATE>20101216<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/wen-jiabaos-south-asia-visit-a-tightrope-walk/a-6348479
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Wen Jiabao's South Asia visit: a tightrope walk
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
As the Chinese Prime Minister visits India and Pakistan, he has a delicate task of improving ties with India without displeasing Pakistan. Wen is starting the second leg of his South Asian tour in Pakistan on Friday.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

China has a reputation of being an 'all-weather' partner of Pakistan. However, 
it has recently moved closer towards Pakistan's arch-rival India. As the 
Chinese premier Wen Jiabao signs bumper trade deals with New Delhi on his India 
visit, Pakistan too is hoping to receive maximum trade benefits to aid its 
frayed economy. China's closer ties with India are looked at in Islamabad with 
some suspicion. India, too, is critical of China's various proposed contracts 
with Pakistan that are going to be finalized during Wen Jiabao's visit to 
Islamabad.

Pakistan's nuclear weapon program has Chinese backing

Controversial nuclear deal

India views the proposed one-gigawatt nuclear plant deal between Pakistan and 
China with a lot of concern. China's investment in the nuclear facilities of 
Pakistan, whose track record in nuclear non-proliferation has been marred by 
controversies, is enough to raise the eyebrows of Western powers. Besides, 
Pakistan is not a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT).

But according to Moonis Ahmar, professor of international relations at Karachi 
University, the NPT is irrelevant in the case of the Sino-Pakistani nuclear 
deal, as its purpose is to generate energy. "It is true that Pakistan's nuclear 
record has been controversial, particularly in the case of A.Q. Khan, but the 
fact is that Pakistan faces a serious energy deficit, and that is the reason 
Pakistan and China are going to sign a deal," Ahmar told Deutsche Welle.

India, too, has not signed the NPT. Islamabad believes that if the US could 
give nuclear concessions to New Delhi, it has an equal right to attain nuclear 
energy, and if it does not come from the US, China has been a tried and tested 
regional ally.

China is the major supplier of conventional weapons to Pakistan, and it is 
also believed that it helped Pakistan in building its nuclear weapons program.

Many in Pakistan believe that Beijing has moved closer towards India

Kashmir dispute

India is unhappy about China's practice of giving stapled visas to travelers 
from Jammu and Kashmir, as well as China's role in building dams in 
Pakistan-administered Kashmir. India wants China to be more sensitive on the 
Kashmir issue. However, many in Pakistan point out that Beijing has already 
changed its stance.

"China has somehow amended its position on Kashmir. 35 to 40 years ago, China 
was openly supporting Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir, but now it advises 
Pakistan to resolve the conflict through dialogue and negotiations, and avoid 
any kind of militaristic adventure. So it is a different policy on Kashmir 
now," said Moonis Ahmar.

China's economic influence

The State Bank of Pakistan has given a green signal to ICBC to operate in 
Pakistan

According to Pakistan's foreign office spokesman Abdul Basit, the Chinese 
premier is expected to sign 36 development projects in Pakistan, which will 
include projects in energy, infrastructure, and finance. The Pakistani 
government has also approved the licence of the Industrial and Commercial Bank 
of China (ICBC).

In the face of a severe economic crisis and massive floods, Pakistan is 
looking to China for greater economic support. The annual bilateral trade 
between Pakistan and China was about $6.8 billion in 2009 and the two countries 
aim to increase it to $15 billion by 2011.

Islamist extremism

India wants China to play a role in curbing Islamist militancy and hopes that 
the Chinese PM will use his influence on Pakistan, which is regularly blamed by 
India for cross-border terrorism.

China, too, has concerns about the issue of Islamist militancy in its 
northwestern Xinjiang region, bordering Pakistan. China has been urging 
Pakistan to take action against Uighur militants who have possible links with 
the Islamists in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Islamabad denies any connections with Islamist militants. 

Author: Shamil Shams
Editor: Thomas Baerthlein

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>