<ID>20141121-130
<DATE>20141121<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/chinese-courts-reject-uighur-scholars-appeal-try-journalist/a-18078459
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Chinese courts reject Uighur scholar's appeal, try journalist
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A Chinese court has rejected the appeal of prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti against his life sentence for "separatism." This comes as journalist Gao Yu is tried on charges of leaking state secrets.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 A court in China's western Xinjiang region on Friday upheld a life sentence 
imposed on a well-known Uighur scholar who was convicted on charges of 
fomenting unrest and advocating separatism.

 The harsh verdict handed down in September to Ilham Tohti, 45, 
 was the most 
severe in decades to be pronounced against a goverment critic in China. 


 Tohti, an economics professor, has repeatedly criticized the government in 
Beijing for its policies toward the Uighur minority in Xinjiang, but he has 
always denied promoting violence or separatism.

Hearing set at short notice

 His lawyers, Liu Xiaoyuan and Li Fangping, said the appeal hearing at a 
detention center in the regional capital, Urumqi, was a violation of normal 
judicial procedure, and that the date was set at such short notice that neither 
of them was able to attend.

 Tohti would appeal the ruling at the High Court and the Supreme Court, Li 
said, adding that his client had been kept in leg irons for almost two months.

 Li also said that Tohti would request that his place of detention be shifted 
to Beijing, where his wife and children live.

 Xianjing has been hit by a wave of violence that Beijing blames on separatist 
groups from among the mostly-Muslim Uighur minority. Rights groups say 
repressive government policies have fueled the unrest, in which 200 people have 
died this year alone.

Crackdown on dissidence

 In a second case that underlines Chinese President Xi Jinping's ongoing 
campaign to silence government critics, a Beijing court on Fridaybegan its 
trial of outspoken journalist Gao Yu. 
 She is 
accused of providing state secrets to foreign contacts.
 

Gao Yu's lawyers say she confessed under duress

The journalist, who suffers from heart problems, had to pause to take medicine 
several times during the four-hour hearing, her lawyer Mo Shaoping told the 
news agency AFP.

 The 70-year-old Gao has contributed to Deutsche Welle 

 along with other foreign media outlets,and is known for her articles 
criticizing government leaders.

 Gao has already served a prison sentence in the 1990s. She was arrested in 
April this year 
 
on charges of having illegally obtained a Communist party document and handing 
it to an overseas website for publication, according to previous official 
reports.

 The internal party communiqu√© reportedly called for a harsh crackdown on 
dissent and warning against Western-style democracy.

'Frontal assault' on freedom

 Sophie Richardson, China director of the US-based activist group Human Rights 
Watch, called Gao's case "a frontal assault on the freedom of expression and 
access to information," adding that Chinese laws on "state secrets" were being 
abused to silence political dissent.

 Since coming to power in 2012, President Xi has overseen the detention or 
imprisonment of hundreds of government critics. Among them are promiinent legal 
expert Xu Zhiyong, who was sentenced to four years' imprisonment in January, 
and well-known human rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang, who has not been released after 
being detained in May.

 tj/ipj (AFP, AP, Reuters)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>