<ID>20141207-124
<DATE>20141207<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/sierens-china-beijing-charts-unknown-territory-with-counter-terrorism-law/a-18115263
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Sieren's China: Beijing charts unknown territory with counter-terrorism law
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The fight against international terror wonâ€™t be won without international cooperation. Beijing is having to rethink its counter-terrorism strategies, says DW columnist Frank Sieren.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 It isn't quite over, but 2014 has already gone down in history as the year in 
which China experienced a record number of terrorist attacks, and saw them 
claim a record number of people's lives. Terrorism in China has long been 
restricted to the restive Xinjiang region in the far west, home to the Muslim 
Uighur minority group, and was perpetrated by lone fanatics or small cells.

 But what has happened this year is different. The country's leaders and the 
general public alike are becoming aware that terrorism is no longer just 
something that happens on the evening news, but outside their front door. In 
March, 29 civilians were killed at the main railway station in Kunming in 
southern China, and according to the official investigation, the attack was 
carried out by Xinjiang separatists. Four of the Uighur Muslims responsible 
were shot by police at the scene, while three more assailants were apprehended 
and sentenced to death. A female perpetrator who was pregnant was sentenced to 
life in prison.

 Terrorism has well and truly arrived in China, so it is hardly surprising 
that the National People's Congress in November published a controversial draft 
counter-terrorism law. Paragraph 76 authorizes the army and the paramilitary 
police to carry out counterterrorism missions abroad.
 

DW columnist Frank Sieren

Re-thinking the strategy

 This is not unusual: the fight against international terrorism requires 
international efforts, and Beijing believes that international Islamists are 
behind the growing threat to its national security - even though it has no 
concrete evidence to back this up.

 It is no longer enough just to increase the police presence, especially if 
the attacks are organized abroad. For the Chinese, who for some time have only 
operated within their own borders and have hardly seen foreign missions as an 
option, this is new territory. So far, only the Chinese police has taken part 
in UN peace missions.

 But it is clear that since the US has largely withdrawn from the Middle East, 
terrorist activities in China have increased.

 Sending goods rather than weapons and promoting economic development is still 
a sensible strategy and has eroded support for terrorists among the population 
in many regions. But it can be slow to take effect, and in the meantime the 
terrorists aren't wasting time. "Islamic State" militants have already declared 
that freeing Xinjiang is on their agenda. China is now confronted with a 
problem that the West, particularly the US, has suffered from for some time.

New problems, new plans

 In comparison to the US, which is flanked by two oceans, China is at a 
disadvantage: Afghanistan and Pakistan are neighbors. A narrow corridor 
connects the troublesome province of Xinjiang with an eastern Afghan region in 
which many terrorists have sought refuge and where they undergo training. 
Weapons can easily be brought into China. And as long as Beijing does not want 
to cross the border the source of weapons and ammunition will not run dry.

 The president's remarks earlier this year about how the Chinese public must 
build a "wall of bronze and iron" to fight terrorism, and "make terrorists 
become like rats scurrying across a street, with everybody shouting 'beat 
them'," did not bode well.

 The new draft law, however, shows that Beijing is not about to act 
recklessly. It contains a clause stating that soldiers and armed police should 
only be deployed to countries whose governments have agreed to the operation. 
It is therefore highly unlikely that Chinese special forces will soon be 
showing up uninvited in foreign countries alongside US Seals, or that Chinese 
drones will start violating foreign airspace, as American ones do. Not for the 
time being, anyway.

One of Germany's leading experts on China, Frank Sieren has lived in Beijing 
for 20 years.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>