<ID>20150724-37
<DATE>20150724<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/why-chinas-uighurs-are-joining-jihadists-in-afghanistan/a-18605630
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Why China's Uighurs are joining jihadists in Afghanistan
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
What is driving the Uighur Muslims to increasingly join the ranks of the Taliban and al Qaeda in Afghanistan? Analyst Siegfried O. Wolf tells DW why the Uighur issue has expanded far beyond China's borders.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Uighur Muslims, a Turkic-speaking minority in China's northwestern Xinjiang 
province, have long faced persecution by the country's communist authorities. 
They are a distinct and mostly Sunni Muslim community and one of the 55 
recognized ethnic minorities in China. However, the Uighurs feel increasingly 
suppressed and view Beijing as a "colonizing power" attempting to undermine 
their cultural identity, political rights, religion and to exploit their 
region's natural resources.

 In the past few years, the Chinese government has acted strictly against the 
separatists in Xinjiang. This has pushed many Uighurs towards radicalization 
and militancy. The situation is also becoming aggravated due to the fact that 
Uighur separatism is not only an ethnic movement but also has a religious 
dimension to it.

 The Uighur issue is generally viewed as an internal Chinese security problem 
but some experts argue that it should also be looked at in the context of the 
rising global jihad and Islamic fundamentalism. The crucial point, the analysts 
say, is that the Uighur case is getting increasingly hijacked by the jihadist 
movements, particularly in Afghanistan where a number of Uighur militants are 
reportedly fighting alongside the Taliban and al Qaeda.

 In a DW interview, Siegfried O. Wolf, Director of research at the 
Brussels-based South Asia Democratic Forum (SADF), and a researcher at the 
University of Heidelberg's South Asia Institute, explains what is driving 
Uighurs to join Islamists in Afghanistan and what could be done to prevent this.
 

O. Wolf: 'China's major concern is that Uighurs are still using the Pakistani 
territory to create unrest in western China'

DW: What can you tell us about the link between Uighur separatism and global 
jihadism?

 Siegfried O. Wolf: Decision-makers also need to look at the Uighur conflict 
in the context of Islamic jihad and fundamentalism. It is important to 
investigate to what extent Uighur refugees and illegal migrants are getting 
involved in jihadist networks in and outside South Asia and are being used as 
potential recruits for terrorist organizations.

 According to Chinese sources, Uighur militants use fake Turkish passports to 
enter Afghanistan and Pakistan to join extremist groups. In the Afghan and 
Pakistani camps, which are heavily funded by Saudi Arabia, Uighurs receive 
ideological indoctrination as well as military training.

 Many of the Uighur fighters are organized under an umbrella group called East 
Turkestan Islamic Movement or ETIM. The ETIM was listed as one of the "more 
extreme separatist groups" and as a terrorist organization by the US in 2002.

 According to the UN, the ETIM is associated with al Qaeda and its fighters 
are believed to have fought alongside them and the Taliban in Afghanistan 
against NATO troops. Furthermore, the Uighurs gained combat training in 
Chechnya and were involved in terrorist activities in Kyrgyzstan. Reportedly, 
the ETIM has also sent its members to fight for "Islamic State" (IS) in Syria.

 IS has declared jihad against China on the grounds that Beijing is 
mistreating the Uighur Muslim population. This classic Sunni jihadist 
propaganda based on the persecution of the Uighurs is evident in videos and 
other jihadist material in which IS has called for global jihad and an uprising 
in China.

What is driving the Uighurs to flee China and join the jihadists' ranks?

 The Uighurs identify themselves as the original inhabitants of Xinjiang, 
which they describe as "East Turkistan." Many of the Turkic-speaking Uighurs 
feel closer to Central Asian states and are in favor of separating from China 
or receiving greater autonomy. Therefore, it does not come as a surprise that 
Chinese security officials are dealing with them very strictly and want to have 
Xinjiang under their tight control, for both economic and geo-strategic reasons.

DW recommends

Chinese police shoot dead 'terrorist' Uighurs

Officers in Shenyang have killed three Uighur men who they say were Islamist 
militants. Activists have said that Uighurs are merely being discriminated 
against by a "hostile" government. (14.07.2015)
  
Rights groups slam Thailand's Uighur repatriation

Thailand has forcibly sent back to China over 100 Uighur Muslims who had been 
detained in the country since last year. The United Nations has condemned the 
decision, saying the Uighurs could face persecution in China. (09.07.2015)
 

Targeting of Islamic customs reflects 'misdiagnosis' of Uighur discontent

Chinese authorities have reportedly ordered Muslim shopkeepers in a Xinjiang 
village to sell alcohol and cigarettes in a bid to undermine Islam's hold on 
local residents. But will this work? DW speaks to James Millward. (11.05.2015)
 

 Beijing has enforced harsher regulations against the Uighurs and raised the 
security budget for Xinjiang. As a result, tensions between the Uighurs and the 
majority Han Chinese people have dramatically increased. Clashes and violent 
riots broke out between the two communities in July 2009, which resulted in at 
least 197 fatalities. Another wave of violence occurred in 2012.This has driven 
many Uighurs to flee China â€“ both legally and illegally - to other countries.

Around 100 Uighurs were recently deported by Thailand to China. What kind of 
treatment do repatriated Uighurs generally receive from the Chinese authorities?

 There is no doubt that the "forced returnees" have to face severe 
persecution, torture, abuse, and even disappearances in China. The Chinese 
authorities have executed several of them in the past.

You said Uighur militants are active in Afghanistan fighting alongside the 
Taliban. Could China convince Pakistan to use its influence over the Taliban 
and make it act against the Uighur extremists?

 In the past, Islamabad acted against militant groupings carrying out 
anti-Chinese activities. However, this happened on Pakistani soil and did not 
include Afghanistan or the Afghan Taliban. When it comes to Afghanistan it 
seems that Pakistan and China are not on the same page.

 Achieving peace in Afghanistan is not Islamabad's main goal or concern. 
Pakistan's Afghan policy is driven by its rivalry with India which is aimed at 
minimizing New Delhi's influence over its western neighborhood and making sure 
that a Pakistan-friendly government is in power in Kabul. Even if Islamabad 
decides to use its influence to protect Chinese interests vis-a-vis Uighur 
militants, I am not sure it can convince various Afghan Taliban factions and 
affiliated groups to change their strategies.

To what extent are Uighurs a threat to Sino-Pakistani relations?

 In the Af-Pak region, China's Uighurs have proven to be not only an unusual 
source of friction in China-Pakistan and Afghanistan-Pakistan ties but have 
also added to regional instability.

 In this context, it is important to note that until the early 1990s, 
Pakistani governments adopted a much lenient attitude towards the Uighur 
presence in its northwestern tribal areas and remained largely indifferent to 
their separatist cause in China. This policy changed in the late 1990s in order 
to mollify Beijing, which felt increasingly uncomfortable about the fact that 
Pakistan's lawless tribal region bordering Afghanistan had developed into a 
sanctuary for Uighur extremists.
 

O. Wolf: 'Beijing has raised its security budget for Xinjiang'

Beijing's major concern remains that Uighurs are using the Pakistani territory 
to create unrest in western China. As such, China expects that Pakistan acts 
more aggressively against these militants.

Could Uighur militants challenge the implementation of the planned 
China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC)?

 The CPEC, funded and most likely constructed exclusively by China, could be a 
primary target of Uighur fighters in the region. Islamabad needs to do 
something to prevent this from happening. Otherwise it could have a negative 
impact on its ties with China and its weak economy.

Siegfried O. Wolf is Director of research at the Brussels-based South Asia 
Democratic Forum (SADF), and a researcher at the University of Heidelberg's 
South Asia Institute.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>