<ID>20150804-133
<DATE>20150804<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/sierens-china-silk-against-sand/a-18625645
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Sieren's China: Silk against sand
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
China's "New Silk Road" project is supposed to prevent further land desertification. And DW's Frank Sieren thinks it's worth a shot.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 One of China's worst enemies is its deserts. They have infertile soil, a 
scarcity of water and sand storms. Moreover, they are expanding. The sandstorms 
in the spring and fall can even be felt in Beijing. Fertile land is turning 
into sandy soil where hardly anything can grow.

 A fifth of China's surface is already feeling the impact - about 1.73 million 
square kilometers (670,000 square miles) have been lost to sand in the past 50 
years. Some 400 million Chinese citizens are directly affected by the 
consequences of dry soil, especially in the northwest and west of China. In 
Inner Mongolia, almost 50 percent of the soil has dried up, whereas in Xinjiang 
province the same is true for nearly 65 percent. These are also the regions 
that are feeling the worst impact from the sandstorms, which can be up to 100 
meters (328 feet) high and whip up force 9 gales.

 This is not a new problem for the Chinese government. There have been studies 
about desertification in China since 1977 when the first was commissioned by a 
UN conference. The reasons are also known: overgrazing, erroneous cultivation 
methods, as well as natural causes such as wind and water erosion because land 
is not protected satisfactorily. There aren't enough trees anywhere.

 The government has long sought a solution, but this is difficult. Every year, 
some 1,700 square kilometers are won back from the sand, but the deserts 
continue to expand. The same problem that is encountered in the West prevails. 
Nobody really knows how to motivate people, in this case farmers, to behave in 
a way that is environmentally-friendly.

The pressure is on

 The following rules of thumb exist: The less people benefit from economic 
progress, the less willing they are to forego growth in favor of the 
environment. It's only when there is a certain amount of economic progress that 
people tend to be prepared to rethink their ideas. This was also the case in 
Germany. However, the Chinese government cannot wait this long. In the deep 
west of the Chinese hinterland, it could take a long time for people to change 
their minds. Police officers cannot force all farmers to act reasonably. This 
is why China is trying to inter-connect environment-related discipline to 
economic progress.

 The struggle against desertification is being linked to one of the Chinese 
government's most important projects: the rebuilding of the old Silk Road. The 
idea is as follows: If you behave in a way that is environmentally-friendly, 
you will get special conditions for involvement in the economic boom. Nobody 
knows whether this will work, but it's worth a try. This new order was 
inaugurated at the 5th Kubuqi International Desert Forum in Ordos, Inner 
Mongolia last week by Chinese Vice-Premier Wang Yang, who is responsible for 
agriculture and water resources. The new trade corridor that Beijing is 
building on the traces of the old Silk Road is supposed to be the focus.

Individual projects are not enough 

 China is investing $40 billion (36.5 billion euros) into building up the 
infrastructure in the whole of Central Asia for the new Silk Road that will run 
from Russia to Pakistan and, of course, in China itself. The underdeveloped 
western region of China is supposed to benefit the most from the government's 
new interest. Since 80 percent of China's desert is on the old Silk Road, Wang 
Yang hopes that there will be more progress if the two are interlinked.

 In its next Five Year Plan, Beijing hopes to introduce a model of 
public-private partnership to encourage farmers, business people and NGOs with 
financial aid to do more against desertification. The model will first be 
implemented in the Kubuqi Desert, a region in which a lot has been done to try 
to fight the sands in the past few decades but not necessarily collectively. 
The plan this time is to find joint solutions because it does not help if an 
NGO manages to transform a part of the region into fertile land if a careless 
farmer allows his herds to graze elsewhere to the detriment of another region.

Economic progress is essential

 Everybody has to work together. And everyone has to have the feeling not only 
of doing some good for the environment, but also of benefitting in economic 
terms as well. Left to their own devices, people are not as green as some would 
like. China is currently suffering the most from progress and development. The 
environmental damages caused by industrialization and traditional 
pre-industrial ways of life are clashing in China in an unprecedented manner. 
That's why the task is particularly difficult.

DW's Frank Sieren has lived in Beijing for 20 years.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>