<ID>20070212-109
<DATE>20070212<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=8462
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Year-of-the-Pig:-State-TV-bans-piggies-out-of-respect-for-Islam-8462.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Year of the Pig: State TV bans piggies out of respect for Islam
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The central government order aims to show respect for minorities. However the move is also intended to put a stop to disagreements with the Han and to win the favour of oil-rich Muslim countries. There is the influence of astrology too, which predicts revolts and the overthrow of governments. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – In a week’s time, the Chinese world will 
celebrate the New Year under the zodiac sign of the Pig. But for the Year of 
the Pig, the Chinese government has banned all adverts showing this animal.
Beijing is hoping to gain kudos from Islamic states for its sensitivity and 
respect for their religious convictions even if it continues repressing the 
Muslim minority, especially in Xinjiang.



In letter to advertising agencies, the main state television CCTV warned that 
“sinceChina is a multi-cultural country, out of respect for the religious 
convictions of Muslims, images of pigs must be avoided in 2007.” TV sources 
said: “This was indicated to us from top government quarters... to protect 
harmony between different religions and ethnic groups”.



It seems that the order has come from the Politburo Standing Committee of the 
Communist Party that wants the Year of the Pig (starting on 18 February) to be 
celebrated without offending the country’s 21 million Muslims.



The order has created problems for big firms: they had already designed their 
publicity spots, focused on the presence of pigs, but now they must create new 
ones within a few days. Nestlé had prepared a cartoon of a beaming little pig 
celebrating a “Happy Year of the Pig”. Coca Cola had two cartoons, one with a 
panda and the other with a pig, but they will not broadcast the one with the 
pig in areas with big Muslim communities.



The media have given the news importance and reported the enthusiastic 
response from Muslim communities. For example, Huo Engjie, director inShanghai 
of the Association of Minorities, said: “Even if we [Muslims] are less than 2% 
of the Chinese population, this ban shows how much the government respects us. 
It’s really moving.”



The Muslim population in China is divided into Hui – Chinese who have 
converted to Islam – and Uighurs.



The Hui, around 15 million, are present especially in Ningxia (Central China), 
Shaanxi, Qinghai and Beijing. 



Beijing has always displayed considerable tact towards them. For decades, 
while Catholics were forbidden from going toRome, the government subsidized 
Muslim pilgrimages toMecca. 



However, China implements a repressive and colonizing policy towards the 
Uighurs (of Turkish origin, around eight million), aimed at putting a stop to 
autonomist aspirations and fundamentalist infiltrations fromPakistan and 
Afghanistan. According to a Xinjiang daily, in 2005 China arrested 18,227 
Uighurs on charges of “threatening national security”. Hundreds have been 
condemned to death. In January, police attacked a training camp and killed 18 
Muslim Uighurs, claiming without proof that that they were terrorists.



For some years, tension has also been growing with the Hui, above all for 
social reasons. The Han – the Chinese race par excellence – are preferred in 
employment and trade and this has created resentment among the Hui and 
consequent clashes. There has also been a growth of Muslim integralism among 
the Hui, owing to the influence of pilgrimages and the meeting of the 
“Chinesized” Islam of the Hui with more fundamentalist Pakistani and Saudi 
doctors of the Koran.



The decision to ban images of the pig is an attempt to show, at home and 
abroad,China’s great respect for the Muslim world. After all, China buys plenty 
of oil from Muslim countries in theMiddle East, central Asia and Africa so it 
must be hoping this approach will draw appreciation from the Muslim world.



The ban on images of the pig is being debated in many blog sites too. People 
from the ethnic Hui group consider the ban to be an exaggeration and show 
tolerance. “This New Year feast is a feast of the Han, it’s not ours. We know 
how much importance the Han give to this animal [pig], it’s useless to ban it,” 
said one woman.



Some believe the reason behind the ban on images of the pig lies in the fear 
that this year will be marked by clashes, conflicts and dynastical changes. 
According to Chinese astrologists, 2007 is a year of the Pig marked by “fire 
and water”, two contrasting elements that indicate the possibility of wars and 
conflicts. “There will be much disharmony that could lead to tensions and 
revolts to the point of overthrowing governments”.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>