<ID>20091002-116
<DATE>20091002<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=16486
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/China-celebrates-its-rosy-future-without-dealing-with-the-past-or-present-16486.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China celebrates its rosy future without dealing with the past or present
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Shows and perfect organization for the grand celebration of 60 years of communism. The party celebrates the greatness of the country to assert its power. But its celebrations ignore Tibet, Xinjiang and many unsolved problems. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews / Agencies) - China stopped for hours yesterday to watch the 
television and witness the clear message that Beijing wanted to send to the 
world: China has grown and claims its place among the world powers, under the 
unquestioned leadership of the Communist Party.

The ceremony perfectly organised down to the very last detail:  yesterday 
morning Beijing's was threatened by ominous clouds and immediately the sky was 
bombarded with 432 rockets loaded with silver iodide, which quickly gave a 
clear blue sky, as had been done for the inauguration of the Olympics a year 
ago. The cost: about 2 thousand Yuan per skyrocket, a little under one million 
Yuan (100 thousand euros) in total.

For the military parade President Hu Jintao donned a green-gray jacket (see 
photo) like that always worn by Mao Zedong, tailored just for the event. Like 
Mao, he paraded aboard a 12-cylinder communist-red limousine in front of the 
deployed troops repeating: "I greet you, comrades," and getting the answer: 
"Hello, Our Leader!" Or even "We serve the People! . He even marched hand in 
hand with a Tibetan girl on one side and a Uyghur child on the other, although 
his speech avoided all mention of the problems in Tibet and Xiniang. A large 
screen in the square showed pictures of happy Tibetans, but many commentators 
have wondered if they were not, in reality, ethnic Han in Tibetan costume.

In a carefully orchestrated show, the successes of China in every field were 
represented and several illustrious Chinese personalities took part in the 
march: from former Olympic champion Liu Xiang to the astronaut Zhai Zhigang who 
made the first Chinese space walk.

The ceremony was attended by past and present leaders and the portrait of Hu 
was exhibited alongside those of Mao and his successors, Deng Xiaoping and 
Jiang Zemin, to signify the continuity of the Communist leadership and to give 
Hu a place equal to those of his predecessors.

The celebration of the People's Republic of China, however, was devoid of its 
people: Tiananmen Square and along the route of the parade was filled by 
authorities and especially selected guests, from among the 75 million Communist 
Party members who form the political leadership and who control the armed 
forces . Instead, the people were "invited" by a relentless campaign to stay 
home and watch the parade along Changan Boulevard on television. The security 
measures were maximal and the many, mostly foreign tourists, who tried to 
"infiltrate" the celebrations uninvited met with little luck: as if the Great 
China that on a par with world power feels threatened by its own citizens 
having to keep them at a safe distance from its leaders celebrations. So much 
so, it has had to arrest in the past year or so, numerous pro-democracy 
activists and defenders of human rights, to prevent them from organizing 
protests and demonstrations during this celebration. 

Still China proudly participated in the party and recalled the last 30 years 
of rapid economic and international growth, after 30 years of isolationism and 
after having suffered repeated abuse in the previous 200 years. But those who 
were around 60 years ago remember the announcement of Mao, but also the 
hundreds of thousands of people persecuted during the Cultural Revolution and 
the millions of deaths from the Great Famine, an event which the CCP has never 
disavowed, and of which it is still forbidden to speak in terms that deviate 
from the official version.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>