<ID>20100802-18
<DATE>20100802<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=19098
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Han-intellectuals-write-to-Government:-End-discrimination-against-Uyghurs-19098.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Han intellectuals write to Government: "End discrimination against Uyghurs"
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Uyghur intellectual Hailie Niyazi, who works for the ethnic understanding, sentenced to 15 years in prison, 51 lawyers and professors write to the Chinese government: "respect freedom of expression and human rights, or the nation will collapse".
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) - A group of 51 Chinese Han lawyers and professors has 
published an open letter expressing their concern about the "criminalization of 
free speech" that occured in the case of journalist imagine Hailie Niyazi, 
sentenced last July 23 to 15 years in prison for endangering state security. 
The letter, which we publish in full, was posted on the Internet by Chinese 
Human Rights Defender and has been circulated on mainland China.

Respect Freedom of Expression, Release Xinjiang Journalist Hailaite Niyaz 

We have learned that 51-year old Uyghur journalist and author Hailaite Niyazi 
(whose name also appears as Hairat or Gheyret Niyaz or Niyaze) was recently 
sentenced to 15 years in prison by the Urumqi Intermediate Court in Xinjiang 
Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) for "leaking state secrets." Born in Qoqek 
(Tacheng), XUAR, Niyazi graduated from the Minzu University of China in Beijing 
and has previously held the positions of Chief Editorial Director ofXinjiang 
Legal Daily and Deputy Director of the Perspectives on the Rule of Law (Fazhi 
Zongheng) magazine publishing house.  A former editor and director of the 
website Uighurbiz.net, as well as manager of the site's discussion forum, for a 
long time Niyazi has written online essays in Chinese, gradually building a 
wide following among China’s netizens.

Niyazi combined his personal experiences facing problems affecting the Uyghur 
community with systematic research. According to anAsia Weekly report, Niyazi 
carefully tracked Uyghur netizen reactions to the 2009 Shaoguan incident in 
Guangdong Province and came to the conclusion that a major incident was likely 
to take place on July 5, 2009. Around eight o'clock on the evening of July 4, 
Niyazi contacted government officials to warn them of his findings; the next 
morning, at 10 am, he personally met with top officials of the XUAR to offer 
three specific recommendations.

However, officials did not act on his recommendations. Niyazi believed that 
the July incident's causes could be traced to dissatisfaction with bilingual 
education initiatives in Xinjiang and government-organized efforts to send 
Uyghurs to other provinces to work as industrial laborers. Niyazi expressed the 
above opinions in media interviews, and soon thereafter published an article 
regarding the September 3rd incident [a demonstration by Han Chinese in Urumqi 
demanding the removal of Xinjiang Autonomous Region Chief Wang Lequan for 
mishandling the July 5 violence].

His articles pointed out that Uyghurs have not received tangible economic 
benefits despite living in a resource-rich region, and have been gradually 
marginalized and pushed into poverty. Furthermore, as the Xinjiang government 
has expanded anti-terrorism policies and anti-splittist ideological campaigns 
in the past 20 years and set up checkpoints around the XUAR, Uyghurs in many 
areas have been subjected to dehumanizing searches and inspections which have 
heightened anxieties in the Uyghur community and aggravated ethnic conflict.

Niyazi is a Uyghur intellectual who upholds the spirit of independence, and 
who for a long time has been greatly concerned about the fate of China and its 
ethnic minorities, as well as with problems affecting citizens' civil rights 
and livelihood. He promoted increasing mutual understanding between Uyghurs and 
Han and his views about politics and culture are moderate and rational, to the 
point that some believed he was sympathetic to the regime. This kind of 
intellectual is extremely important in advancing communication and 
reconciliation between ethnic groups. The groundless charges brought against 
Niyazi, and the severe sentence he has received, are bound to foment extremist 
thoughts and actions and deepen ethnic tensions. Chinese citizens of all 
ethnicities, including Han and Uyghur, are affected negatively by this sentence.

Additionally, we have learned that more Uyghur website managers and 
journalists have been arrested or imprisoned for expressing their opinions. We 
are deeply troubled by this news. We believe that the thoughts and opinions of 
every person, regardless of their background, ethnicity, or beliefs, deserve 
full and equal respect. We believe that charging Niyazi and others with speech 
crimes violates the constitutional promise that "the state respects and 
guarantees human rights," contradicts explicit constitutional protections for 
citizens' freedom of speech, and runs counter to provisions in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights treaties which 
China has signed. We hope that the relevant authorities are able to respect the 
rule of law, and wisely and courageously act to ensure citizens are guaranteed 
their freedom and dignity. This will form a solid foundation for the easing of 
ethnic tensions, safeguarding of social peace, and unity of the country.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>