<ID>20121210-15
<DATE>20121210<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=26583
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Police-chief-sacked-in-Xinjiang-as-more-sex-scandals-break-out-in-China-26583.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Police chief sacked in Xinjiang as more sex scandals break out in China
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
He used his power to hire his mistresses, two twin sisters, as police officers despite their lack of experience. Meanwhile, the "fight against corruption" continues inside the party, which extols a moral conscience and integrity it does not have.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) - Despite the great firewall of China, internet users 
appear more apt at uncovering corrupt Communist officials than the party 
itself. Following the cases ofabuses of power in Chongqing and Henan 

, the police chief in Usu, the western autonomous region of Xinjiang, was 
sacked days after he was accused online of keeping twin sisters (pictured) as 
mistresses.

Qi Fang was removed as head of the Public Security Bureau in Usu on Saturday. 
This came after the nation's new leadership vowed last month to implement 
tougher anti-graft measures,Xinhua reported. However, it took someone posting 
details of the case on news portal Iyaxin.com to launch the investigation.

The post said the twins, 31, were hired by the bureau five months after Qi was 
promoted to police chief in June last year. One of the women was made 
vice-captain of special operations, whilst the other was made an assistant 
police officer in the traffic department. Nothing indicated that either had any 
previous work experience with the police.

The post also alleged that Qi was renting a luxury apartment in the city's 
high-end area, paid for by the bureau.

Qi is the latest high-ranking official accused online of corruption in the 
past month to be promptly investigated. Lanzhou Mayor Yuan Zhanting was accused 
of buying at least five luxury watches with public funds.

In Taiyuan, Shanxi, the police chief was suspended and placed under 
investigation a day after a video circulated showing his drunken son, who is 
also a policeman, attacking a colleague after being caught drink-driving.

Li Chuncheng, a former deputy party secretary of Sichuan, fell from grace 
because of corruption allegations.

For some analysts, the crackdown has two purposes.

On the one hand, the new leadership can project an image of moral integrity 
that it does not have since they have some skeletons in their own closets (Xi's 
family has accumulated wealth estimated to be around a billion dollars).

On the other, as the Hu Jintao's administration winds down, people are likely 
to be targeted to enable the new rulers to flex their muscles against the 
party's fractious factions and gain the most from the new balance of power.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>