<ID>20070110-60
<DATE>20070110<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Chinese-police-defend-massacre-of-%E2%80%9Cterrorists%E2%80%9D-in-Xinjiang-8191.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Chinese police defend massacre of “terrorists” in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Without giving any evidence, Chinese authorities described the camp attacked on 8 January as a den of terrorists. Beijing said the killing of 18 people was within the limits of international and domestic law. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Chinese police yesterday defended an attack 
against what they have described as a training camp run by the East Turkestan 
Islamic Movement (ETIM). The authorities said the police raid was within the 
limits of international and domestic law.

 

Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Liu Jianchao told a press conference 
that “the camp was linked to international terrorism” but he gave no proof to 
substantiate his allegation.

 

Eighteen alleged terrorists were killed and 17 arrested in the attack on 8 
January in the northern Xinjiang province. A police official was killed in the 
clash and another was wounded.

 

The training camp is located in the Pamir Plateau in one of the highest 
altitudes of the region that bordersPakistan, Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan.

 

Ministry of Public Security spokesman Wu Heping said: “The United Nations had 
identified the ETIM as a terrorist group onSeptember 11, 2002. These activists 
have been on a list of Chinese most-wanted people sinceDecember 15, 2003.”

 

He continued: “The criteria and legal basis for identifying terrorists are 
defined by our criminal law, internal security demands and by the Shanghai 
Co-operation Organisation's Shanghai Convention on Combating Terrorism, 
Separatism and Extremism.”

 

On this basis, “Chinese police will continue to closely monitor the situation, 
use force, strengthen international co-operation and crack down on the crimes 
of any terrorists and their groups. It must do so to maintain the stability of 
border areas and to protect the lives of those living there.”

 

However, groups lobbying for human rights groups in China have accused Beijing 
of using the war on terror as a cover for its violent crackdown on separatist 
movements. Wu did not give details of the destroyed training camp, saying only 
that “police were still investigating the matter”.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>