<ID>20090707-33
<DATE>20090707<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/More-protests-in-Urumqi-and-other-cities-in-Xinjiang-15709.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
More protests in Urumqi and other cities in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Women and girls seeking the release of their relatives detained in recent days. Demonstrations in Kashgar, Yılı, Dawan and Tianshan. Rebiya Kadeer: The violence reveals deep problems that Beijing has never wanted to deal with. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Several hundred people, mostly women and girls, 
are challenging the cordons of police on the streets of Urumqi: protesting 
against Chinese repression and demanding the release of their relatives, who 
were arrested after the revolts of July 5.

This morning Xinhua updated the number of victims and of those arrested: in 
the clashes with the police, there were 156 deaths and 1434 arrests. The 
Chinese government continues to discharge the responsibilities of violence 
against the demonstrators, but the population accuses the police of having 
fired on defenceless people.

Meanwhile, yesterday the demonstrations spread to other cities in Xinjiang. In 
Kashgar more than 200 people tried to gather at the Id Kah mosque, but were 
dispersed by police. The police have made arrests in Yılı, Dawan and Tianshan.

In Urumqi, women and girls seeking the release of their loved ones, have 
challenged the control of the city and the roads patrolled by tanks and scores 
of police officers wearing camouflage. Shouting "Give us back our freedom! Give 
us back our men. " The demonstration was witnessed by a group of foreign 
journalists who were being brought on a tour organized by the government to 
show the destruction caused by the demonstrators two days ago.

The police surrounded the group and then dispersed them. But other groups of 
protesters are gathering in the city centre.

Tens of thousands of policemen and soldiers were hired to maintain control of 
the situation and to carry out a series of indiscriminate arrests and 
destruction.

Beijing continues to accuse groups of exiled Uygurs of organizing and 
fomenting the uprisings. But the same groups deny any influence, and accuse 
China of doing nothing to prevent the degeneration of the non-violent 
demonstrations into carnage.

Amnesty International (AI) has asked the Chinese government to investigate the 
deaths and violence in Urumqi and demand the international community put 
pressure on Beijing to respect human rights.

"Beyond the immediate violence - AI says – a systematic violation of human 
rights has been inflicted on the Uighurs” since the 80s.

For decades China has been colonizing Xinjiang, which is rich in oil and gas, 
importing many Han Chinese, who have now become the majority in the region and 
hold all political and economic power. To justify its iron fist Beijing accuses 
the Uygurs of separatists aspirations and terrorist attacks.

Rebiya Kadeer, the exiled Uygurs who China accuses of being behind the riots, 
speaking in Washington said yesterday that the violence in Xinjiang "reveals 
deep, serious problems that the Chinese government has not wanted to tackle or 
mitigate".

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>