<ID>20061009-191
<DATE>20061009<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=7423
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Chinese-government-uses-terrorism-charge-to-eliminate-Uighur-people-7423.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Chinese government uses terrorism charge to eliminate Uighur people
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>

<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Washington (AsiaNews/Agencies)  Rebiya Kadeer, human rights activist of the 
Uighurs, says her nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize has drawn world 
attention to Beijing's oppression of her people. She has denied all links with 
terrorism.

"I am not a terrorist," 60-year-old Kadeer said. "The Chinese government and 
the international community know I am opposed to all forms of terrorism."

Shortly after she was nominated for the Nobel prize, Beijing accused her of 
"sabotaging peace and stability of Chinese society", of collaborating with 
terrorist groups and of organizing violent activities to attain the secession 
of the northern province of Xinijiang (home of the Turkish-speaking Uighur 
minority).

Kadeer, a millionaire businesswoman, was arrested in 1999 and imprisoned for 
five years for disseminating "state secrets" abroad. Kadeer has always 
maintained the material consisted of newspaper clippings sent by fax to her 
husband abroad. She was released on 17 March 2005 after a widespread 
international campaign and obtained refugee status in the United States. Since 
her release, her firm has been submitted to continued checks and three of her 
sons have been detained since May.

Kadeer's response was that "all the Chinese charges are false. Today the 
Chinese government has used the charge of terrorism to persecute and eliminate 
the Uighur people."

She said she hoped Uighurs held in detention abroad on terrorism charges would 
not be extradited to China, where they would be "executed" like "all the 
Uighurs who were extradited to China in the past."

Since the annexation in 1949 of Uighur territory  which was the independent 
state of eastern Turkestan from 1938 to 1949  Beijing has promoted a massive 
wave immigration of ethnic Han to Xinjiang, and has oppressed the people's 
religion and culture. The region is rich in oil and natural resources, used 
above all to boost the rich southern provinces.

Kadeer was nominated as a defender of Uighur rights and of women's rights in 
China. Among the 191 candidates for the Nobel, which will be awarded on 13 
October, there is also the Indonesian president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, for 
his role in talks leading to the Aceh peace agreement in August 2005.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>