<ID>20090730-201
<DATE>20090730<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=15924
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-asks-the-world-to-accept-it’s-version-of-events-in-Xinjiang-15924.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing asks the world to accept it’s version of events in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
China formal protests with Tokyo over the presence of Uyghur leader Kadeer, even demanding cautionary anti- terrorism measures. Instead in Europe, China complains of incorrect versions of the protests of Urumqi. Experts: To avoid misunderstandings, why not accept a inquiry commission. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews / Agencies) - China has called the Japanese ambassador in 
Beijing to protest the visit to Japan of Rebiya Kadeer, head of theUyghur World 
Congress. 

The Chinese Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs Wu Dawei said that Beijing 
"asked the Japanese government to take immediate effective measures to prevent 
[the Kadeer] from carrying out anti-China separatist activities in Japan." 
Sources of the Japanese Government responded that the woman has not been 
invited by the government, nor had dealings with it.

In Tokyo,  Kadeer spoke of the Uyghurs cause, accusing Beijing of violence and 
persecution and met parliamentarians from the Liberal Democratic Party which is 
part of the ruling coalition. China says that the woman is a dangerous 
terrorist and separatist and organized violent protests that broke out on July 
5 in Xinjiang.

Yesterday, the Kadeer also accused the Chinese authorities of being behind the 
overnight disappearance "of about 10 thousand people” from Urumqi, capital of 
Xinjiang. Today Hou Hanmin, spokesman of the Xinjiang government, denied the 
allegations, insisting on the official figures of about 1,700 arrests for 
violent protests. Furthermore, the province has issued a list of 15 fugitive 
Uyghurs, wanted on charges of having had a "significant role" in the protests.

The Kadeer has also asked the Chinese authorities "to dialogue" and called on 
the international community to press Beijing to look for a peaceful solution to 
the problem of the Uyghurs, a minority in their own country and subject to 
systematic cultural and physical persecution.

Chinese diplomacy is working to mitigate the negative effect of the protests 
and the crackdown in place in Xinjiang. Ambassador Song Zhe, Head of the 
Chinese Mission to the European Union, has written article inEuropean Voice 
entitled "What Europe should understand about the violence in Urumqi”, in which 
he insists that the Uyghurs started the violent protests and that the police 
had to protect the safety of innocent citizens. Many comments on blog posts 
from China are cited as evidence in support of this version. But the fact that 
the internet was shut down across the region in the immediate aftermath of the 
protests is not explained. Song celebrates Beijing as an example of economic 
growth and tolerance and recalls the 23 thousand mosques that exist across the 
country. But the frequent prohibitions affecting Muslims in Xinjiang, with 
regard to their religion, language, culture are not mentioned.

 

 

 

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>