<ID>20160805-67
<DATE>20160805<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=38232
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Christian-activist-sentenced-to-three-years-for-subversion-38232.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Christian activist sentenced to three years for "subversion"
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
  
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Tianjin (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Protestant Christian human rights activist,Gou 
Hongguo, was sentenced this morning to three years in prison for attempting to 
"subvert state power". The sentence was suspended for three years.

According to the indictment, Gou - who was part of Hu Shigen's community, also 
sentenced days before 

- took part in a meeting of interracial leaders in Taiwan. There were 
supporters of independence from Xinjiang, Tibet and Inner Mongolia.

The prosecutor acknowledged that the meeting wanted to implement a non-violent 
resistance and push for social and democratic change in China. But this entails 
an end to the supremacy of the Communist Party, which led to the charge of 
"subversion". Gou was also accused of having associated with protests related 
to workers' rights, that challenge Communist Party rule.

The arguments of the defense, that Gou had gone to Taiwan without knowing who 
the guests were and on his return did not publish any information about the 
gathering, were to no avail. The defense lawyer also noted that the meeting 
only involved 15 people and Gou had a marginal role.

Gou's ruling is the latest of four, which took place this week against human 
rights lawyers and activists arrested in July 2015. 


Yesterday Zhou Shifeng, the former director of the Fengrui law firm,was also 
sentenced.

Fengrui took on about 100 lawyers and handled many sensitive cases: it 
represented the victims of the scandal of the melamine milk; the artist Ai 
Weiwei; the blind activist Chen Guangcheng, now in exile in the United States; 
the Christian lawyer Gao Zhisheng; Uighur academic Ilham Tohti.

The court ruled that Zhou has repeatedly expressed comments online and in 
person "attacking the socialist system, the one country two systems policy 
[that exists in Hong Kong], and incited people to go against state power".

His trial ended with an ironic scene: Zhou spoke for 10 minutes, then stopped 
by the judges. He "apologized to all 90 million members of the Communist Party" 
and the government, adding that "the legal system and democracy in China is 
greater than that of the state of Western law and above all far beyond that of 
the United States".

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>