<ID>20140923-74
<DATE>20140923<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/uighur-scholars-life-sentence-triggers-widespread-condemnation/a-17941394
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Uighur scholar's life sentence triggers widespread condemnation
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A Chinese court has sentenced prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in prison for "separatism." Rights groups have slammed the controversial trial as a "failure" of the justice system and demanded Tohti's release.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The accused denied all the charges in court, but to no avail. The Urumqi 
People's Intermediate Court sentenced Uighur academic Ilham Tohti to life 
imprisonment and confiscated all his possessions, an unusually harsh punishment 
for someone widely regarded as a moderate critic. While the sentence was being 
read out on Tuesday, September 23, Tohti shouted "I refuse it," Li Fangping, 
one of Tohti's lawyers, told DW, adding that the defendant "will certainly 
appeal."

 Following the two-day trial on charges of separatism, Jewher Ilham, Tohti's 
daughter told DW that her father never had "any thoughts of splitting the 
country" and was therefore innocent. "He has done nothing wrong. Putting him in 
prison would be a foolish act," said the 20-year-old who is currently studying 
in the United States.

 Sophie Richardson, China director of Human Rights Watch (HRW), said the case 
exposed the "wholesale failure" of the Chinese judicial system, as authorities 
failed to show any understanding of or interest in constructive criticism and 
relations with ethnic minorities.

A moderate critic

 Born in 1969 in a small town in the western Chinese province of Xinjiang, 
Tohti moved to Changchun for higher education and from there to Beijing to 
advance his career as a renowned economist.
 

HRW's Richardson said the case exposed the 'wholesale failure' of the Chinese 
judicial system

 For several years, Tohti researched at Beijing's Minzu University, amongst 
other things, about the Uighurs' social standing in Xinjiang Province. He came 
to the conclusion that the Muslim minority in the province was not treated the 
same way as the majority Han Chinese. He also found that the Uighurs were being 
systematically discriminated by the Chinese authorities.

 Tohti repeatedly criticized the central government's policies against the 
minority. However, Tohti is viewed by many as a moderate critic, always pushing 
for a better understanding between Uighurs and Han Chinese.

'A man in a cage'

 In 2006, Tohti founded "Uighur online," a website designed to address the 
minority group's issues. Two years later, Chinese authorities shut down the 
site and arrested Tohti on charges of promoting Uighur separatism. Following 
the 2009 Xinjiang riots, the scholar was repeatedly placed under house arrest.

 In a 2013 DW interview, Tohti referred to himself as a "man in a cage." Just 
a few months later, on January 15, he was arrested at his home in Beijing and 
later sent to Xinjiangâ€™s capital Urumqi - some 1550 miles away - where Chinese 
prosecutors indicted the 44-year-old with "separatism and inciting hatred."
 

Tohti repeatedly criticized the central government's policies against the 
minority Uighur community

 Following Tohti's arrest, Chinese writer Li Jingrui wrote on her microblog: 
"While many wicked and messy problems are out there in Xinjiang, they chose to 
jail Ilham, the one who is most moderate and most keen on reconciliation and 
dialogue."

A controversial trial

 Although the case against the academic drew international attention, no 
details of the trial - except for the court's short messages - were published 
online in China, and most of the country's mainstream commentators remained 
silent on the issue.

 Tohti's lawyers said the prosecution cited the 44-year-old's online writings 
and statements made in the classroom as evidence that he had fomented ethnic 
hatred in Xinjiang. But the scholar rejected all the allegations, stating that 
he had neither committed separatist actions nor had any such intentions, said 
Li.

DW recommends

Ilham Tohti - The moderate critic

Ilham Tohti, a well-known Uighur and a moderate critic of Beijing's policy 
towards the country's Muslim minority, is on trial in China on charges of 
"separatism." DW takes a look at the scholar's life. (17.09.2014)
  
Chinese court jails Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti for life for 'separatism'

A Chinese court has sentenced a prominent Uighur scholar to life imprisonment 
on charges of inciting "separatism." His detention and conviction have sparked 
international protest. (23.09.2014)
 

Xinjiang: Restrictions on religion may lead to 'Uighur radicalization'

A city in China's Xinjiang province has temporarily banned people with veils, 
head scarves and long beards from boarding buses. Experts say attempts at 
repressing their culture are fueling violence and extremism. (08.08.2014)
 

Uighur Congress disputes Beijing's account of Xinjiang clash

A day after dozens of people were killed in clashes in China's restive 
Xinjiang region, the Uighur World Congress' Alim Seytoff tells DW Beijing's 
account of events intends to depict peaceful protesters as "terrorists." 
(30.07.2014)
 

 After the trial, the court posted a message on its social media account, 
saying "the rights of the defendant and his lawyers had been fully protected 
according to law during the court proceedings."

Growing concerns

 China's resource-rich western province of Xinjiang is home to about 10 
million Uighurs, who are mostly Sunni Muslims. Ethnic tensions have been 
simmering there for years and escalated into several deadly conflicts in the 
recent past.

 On September 21, for instance, three explosions killed at least two people 
and injured many others in central Xinjiang. Over the past couple of months, 
dozens have been killed in riots in the restive province. In addition, the 
attacks have grown in scale and spilled into other parts of China.

 Beijing has made "terrorists and separatists" responsible for the rising 
tensions in the region and reacted by tightening its already rigid control over 
Xinjiang. Chinese authorities have vowed to quell the violence by stepping up 
security measures and imposing religious restrictions.

 However, many rights groups and scholars believe that countering violence 
with violence is counter-productive and that the government should rather 
promote ethnic integration to restore the peace. They also blame the 
authorities for fuelling resentment through what they see as Beijing's 
oppressive cultural and religious policies in Xinjiang.

Calling for release

 Ilham Tohti is one of these scholars who has "consistently, courageously, 
peacefully, and unambiguously advocated for greater understanding and dialogue 
between various communities, and with the state," said HRW's Richardson. "If 
this is Beijing's definition of 'separatist' activities, it's hard to see 
tensions in Xinjiang and between the communities decreasing."
 

China's resource-rich western province of Xinjiang is home to about 10 million 
Uighurs, who are mostly Sunni Muslims

 In the meantime, the United States, the European Union and several rights 
groups have called for Tohti's release. "The life sentence handed down to 
prominent Uighur academic Ilham Tohti on charges of 'separatism' is an affront 
to justice," said Amnesty International (AI), adding that the 'shameful 
judgment' has no basis in reality.

 Tohti worked to peacefully build bridges between ethnic communities and for 
that he has been punished through politically motivated charges, said William 
Nee, AI's China Researcher, demanding the scholar's immediate and unconditional 
release. The European Union also called for the scholar's release after 
slamming the life sentence as "completely unjustified." The EU argued that the 
due process of law was not respected, in particular with regard to the right to 
a proper defense.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>