<ID>20100712-140
<DATE>20100712<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=18908
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Kashgar-Gwadar-railway-line-would-give-Beijing-a-window-on-the-Persian-Gulf-18908.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Kashgar-Gwadar railway line would give Beijing a window on the Persian Gulf
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Such a railway line would allay China’s greatest fear, a naval blockade that could stop oil shipments from Africa and the Middle East. However, major political, technical and financial problems remain, including India’s opposition.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and Chinese 
President Hu Jintao met last Wednesday during an official visit of the 
Pakistani leader to the mainland. They discussed plans to build a railway line 
from Kashgar in China’s Xinjiang province to the Pakistani port of Gwadar. This 
could give China direct access to the Persian Gulf and make Pakistan an 
alternative route for Chinese goods and Middle East and African oil, which 
currently have to go around India. 
The ambitious plan has been on the drawing boards for many years. It has 
advantages for both parties. Beijing would have direct access to the Arabian 
Sea; currently, 80 per cent of China’s oil travels through the Indian Ocean and 
the Strait of Malacca, an area plagued by piracy. More importantly, in case of 
war, China’s enemies could easily block its oil supplies. Pakistan would 
especially benefit from increased traffic in the Gwadar port, which was built 
with Chinese capital and assistance and opened in 2008.

Now the railway, which until recently appeared to be technically impossible 
because of the difficult terrain, at 5,000 metres above sea level, could be 
built thanks to the experience and knowledge China has accumulated during the 
construction of the Qinghai-Tibet railway.

However, Professor Wang Mengshu, a rail expert at Beijing Jiaotong University, 
said that the Kashgar-Gwadar project would be "more difficult than the one in 
Tibet" because Chinese surveyors and mappers will not have as good an 
understanding of the local terrain as they did in Tibet.

This would also create uncertainties about the cost, which Wang estimates 
would be around 200 million yuan (US$ 30 million) per kilometre, a bill too 
great even for Beijing.

In addition, India is not going to look favourably at closer Sino-Pakistani 
relations. New Delhi has always regarded Islamabad as its main adversary and 
Beijing as its main rival.

In fact, the proposed railway would have to pass through Pakistan-administered 
Kashmir, a territory claimed by India, and would thus undermine the latter’s 
its claim. Indeed, important Indian newspapers have described the project as a 
serious threat to India's security.

However, the idea still has many supporters in China and many see its 
completion as only a matter of time.

People's Liberation Army Navy Rear Admiral Yin Zhuo said China relied too 
heavily on sea transportation for its oil imports. Hence, "We must either build 
a much more powerful navy or find alternative transportation channels."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>