<ID>20140808-95
<DATE>20140808<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=31846
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/China:-Christian-activist-Gao-Zhisheng-is-free-but-under-control-31846.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China: Christian activist Gao Zhisheng "is free but under control" 
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The authorities in the western province of Xinjiang release the lawyer, committed to the defence of religious freedom in China, but continue to keep him under control. Contact with his family still denied, now in the United States. His teeth are ruined and he is seeking medical care in Urumqi. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) - Authorities in the western province of Xinjiang have 
released the Christian lawyer and human rights activist Gao Zhisheng, one of 
the most critical and best known throughout China. Despite having been released 
from prison - after 3 years - after serving his full sentence, the dissident is 
not really free. Since leaving prison, yesterday, he has been under the 
constant escort of provincial security agents; Moreover, it is not yet able to 
talk on the phone with his family and friends.

His older brother Gao Zhiyi went to pick him up at the prison, but since then 
- according to his wife Geng He, who is currently in the United States - "it is 
impossible to talk to him." The well-known activist Hu Jia, a family friend, 
said he had spoken to his brother: "He explained that Gao's teeth are ruined 
and he is now looking for treatment in Urumqi [capital of Xinjiang ed.] Once he 
has been seen, they want to return in their native village of Yulin, Shaanxi 
province".

Gao Zhisheng is one of the most respected human rights lawyers in China 

, and for a long time - before his conversion - was one of the "Ten best 
lawyers in the country" chosen by the Communist Party. After this first 
successful phase of his life, in 2005, he sought to compile a huge dossier on
the persecution of non-official Christians and members of the Falun Gong 

. Moved by these testimonies, Gao embraced the Christian faith. Since then he 
took up the defense of persecuted believers and congregations and churches 
whose land and property had been expropriated free of charge, which led to his 
being targeted by the authorities.

He has been the victim of harassment and physical threats for many years. In 
December 2006he was sentenced to 3 years imprisonment 

, suspended from practicing for five years on charges of "inciting subversion". 
At first he was allowed to return home, but in reality was placed under illegal 
under house arrest with his wife and children. In 2009, his family managed to 
escape from China because of the constant harassment by the authorities.

On 4 February 2009 the police took Gao Zhisheng from his home. For over a year 
there was no news of his whereabouts 

 until the end of March 2010, when he gave an interview in which he describes 
his odyssey, including torture. He described having been beaten so violently 
that once "my life was hanging by a thread for forty-eight hours." A few days 
after the interview, he disappeared again. In December 2011, after twenty 
months, the state press announced that he had been jailed for violating bail 
conditions. Family and friends, who did not know whether Gao was alive or dead, 
were not informed until the final sentence.

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>