<ID>20140825-164
<DATE>20140825<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=31975
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-8-executions-held:-Tiananmen-attackers-also-killed-31975.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang, 8 executions held: Tiananmen attackers also killed
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The Chinese government has revealed the identity of 7 terrorists killed for crimes that range from terrorist attacks to having watched online video on religious extremism. Uyghur dissident: "Clearly politically motivated executions to weaken the spirit of the province". 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews / Agencies) - The Chinese government has carried out 8 death 
sentences for "terrorism" in the north-western province of Xinjiang. The 
prisoners who were executed include the 3 held responsible for theattack in 
Tiananmen Square last October 

, which killed 5 people. The others were instead found guilty of crimes ranging 
from "arson" to the manufacture of explosive material for terrorist activities.

At the time of their execution, the state news agency Xinhua disclosed the 
identity of the three Tiananmen attackers: Huseyin Guxur, Yusup Wherniyas and 
Yusup Ehmet. Rozi Eziz was instead executed for attacking police officers in 
2013; Abdusalam Elim for leading an unspecified terrorist organization; Memet 
Tohtiyusup for murder (the victim's name unknown) and for watching online video 
on religious extremism; Abdumomin Imin for being "terrorist ringleader". The 
name of the eighth prisoner that was executed is unknown.

Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uighur Congress exile group, called 
the executions "a typical case of the law serving political ends". According to 
the dissident, in fact, the sentences are part of a campaign launched by 
Beijing to weaken the strength of spirit in the province, which has long been 
seeking "genuine autonomy" from the central government.

The Xinjiang region is one of the most turbulent in all of China. Its Uyghur 
Muslim minority, who number about nine million, have long sought independence 
from China. The central government, for its part, has brought in hundreds of 
thousands of settlers to make Han Chinese the dominant ethnic group. At the 
same time, it has severely curtailed Muslim religious worship as well as the 
teaching of the local language and culture.

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>