<ID>20081219-274
<DATE>20081219<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/opinion-removing-the-blot-on-americas-image/a-3888496
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Opinion: Removing the Blot on America's Image
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
After seven years, the controversial US military prison at Guantanamo Bay is set to close. Not just the camp but the entire system which violates international law needs to disappear, says DW's Daniel Scheschkewitz.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

In the beginning, there were chains and cages which later gave way to a highly 
sophisticated high security complex. The prison camp, which prompted outrage 
among human rights lawyers around the world, systematically circumvented the 
rule of law for over seven years.

Daniel Scheschkewitz

Terror suspects in the camp were subjected to questionable interrogation 
practices in an attempt to force confessions. If at all charges were brought 
against a suspect, the trial took place in military courts whose make-up and 
rules were unworthy of a constitutional country like the US.

Erasing a stain

The Guantanamo system, introduced by President George W Bush after the 
terrorist attacks on New York and Washington and the toppling of the Taliban 
regime in Afghanistan, is now set to end. The Pentagon, which oversees the 
prison's functioning, is now preparing for its closure. That will hopefully 
permanently erase the blemish on the international reputation of the United 
States, a country without whom there would be no internationally valid human 
rights. It's also likely to satisfy all democratic countries and their citizens.

But a simple announcement to close Guantanamo Bay isn't enough. 

The US government will now have to deal with dismantling the prison camp in 
such a manner that real terrorists continue to remain in custody and are 
sentenced according to the rule of law, terror suspects face trial in proper 
courts and the innocent are released without fearing for their lives.

It would be unhelpful if the future president of the United States, Barack 
Obama, were simply to rebuild the camp within the borders of the US. Or if he 
deported prisoners, who are proven innocent, to countries where they are 
threatened with imprisonment or torture.

Germany must step up

This is where countries such as Germany and other EU nations should take 
responsibility and offer refuge to groups such as the small number of Uighurs 
held at Guantanamo Bay -- a Muslim minority that faces persecution in China. 
The military trials should also be replaced by proper legal proceedings in US 
civilian courts -- a right that America's highest court upheld for Guantanamo 
prisoners in a ruling more than two years ago.

Complicated decisions

Barack Obama's legal advisors face complicated decisions that involve 
balancing national security imperatives with the principles of a constitutional 
state. Fighting terrorism can no longer involve psychological torture and 
law-free zones. It's only then that the US can be led back permanently on the 
track to upholding the rule of law after years of understandably straying from 
it.

Daniel Scheschkewitz is a reporter for DW-RADIO and Deutsche Welle's former 
Washington correspondent (sp)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>