<ID>20080410-211
<DATE>20080410<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/musharraf-embarks-on-a-visit-to-china/a-5213864
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Musharraf Embarks on a Visit to China
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Pakistan’s President Pervez Musharraf has left for China on a five day official visit. The trip, at the invitation of Chinese President Hu Jintao, aims at further strengthening ties between the two countries. Beijing and Islamabad share decades-old friendship and co-operate in various fields ranging from trade to defence.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

This is the first overseas visit of President Musharraf after the newly formed 
coalition government took over in Pakistan. He is accompanied by his Foreign 
Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Defence Minister Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar, as 
well as chairman of Trade Development Authority of Pakistan and other top 
officials.

The five day visit will include discussions between Musharraf and his Chinese 
counterpart Hu Jintao on various regional and global issues, especially nuclear 
cooperation. China has helped Pakistan build its civil nuclear plants and 
Pakistan clearly wants to enhance this partnership.

The two countries are also expected to sign a number of agreements on further 
economic cooperation. Minam Jaffrey is the secretary of the Pakistan Institute 
of International Affairs in Karachi. He explains the significance of the visit:

“China is deeply involved in various projects including the energy corridor. 
Right now we have financial crisis and China has recently supported with 500 
million dollars in funding. So President Musharraf is there to ensure the 
continuation of the support and aid from China. And this visit also reflects 
the continuation of our old relationship with China.”

Defence co-operation

China and Pakistan regard themselves as old friends. China is Pakistan’s major 
arms supplier. The Pakistan Air Force’s latest fighter aircraft, the JF-17 
Thunder has been developed with the help of China. Earlier this week, a 
Shanghai shipyard inaugurated the first of four F-22P frigates that China is 
building for Pakistan. The project is due to be completed by 2013.

Bilateral trade between the two sides have also flourished in recent years and 
both sides hope to achieve the trade target of $15 billion within the next five 
years. The current trip will take Musharraf to Xinjiang, an area bordering 
Pakistan’s northern areas. Islamabad is particularly keen to attract direct 
investment from this region. Musharraf is also expected to address the region’s 
huge Muslim population, urging them to shun their agitation against China. The 
Uighurs living in Xinjiang have been calling for an independent state.

‘Time-tested’ friendship

President Musharraf's visit also comes at a time, when relations between India 
and China have also been warming up, sparking fears that they can have an 
effect on the ties between Beijing and Islamabad. However Islamabad insists its 
ties with Beijing are ‘all weather- and time-tested’ and cannot be affected by 
any other country. Expert Minam Jaffrey agrees:“ China has made it clear many 
times that its ties with India are not at the cost of Pakistan. Pakistan has a 
very special relationship with China. And there are certain strategic areas 
where Pakistan is involved with China, but India doesn’t come in.“

During his stay, Musharraf will also attend the Boao Forum-a regional meeting 
initiated by China, which starts from Friday. The four day meeting in China's 
southernmost province of Hainan will bring together the state leaders, 
businessmen and prominent personalities from Australia and Asia. President 
Musharraf will also be a keynote speaker at the Forum and is due to meet 
several leaders, including the president of Sri Lanka and prime ministers of 
Australia and Kazakhstan during the conference.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>