<ID>20090707-22
<DATE>20090707<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/tension-remains-high-in-xinjiang/a-5213600
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Tension Remains High in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A night-time curfew was imposed on the capital of China’s western region of Xinjiang on Tuesday after police clamped down on clashing Han Chinese and Uighur protesters. Over a thousand people have been arrested since riots, in which more than 150 people died, erupted on Sunday.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Security was tight in Urumqi on Tuesday. The atmosphere was tense. Thousands 
of protesters from China’s predominant Han ethnic group took to the streets 
with chains, steel bars and other weapons, calling for revenge against the 
Muslim Uighurs -- claiming they incited violence against them in the weekend 
protests. Police fired tear gas to disperse the crowd and the authorities 
imposed a curfew until Wednesday morning.

Henrik Bork, a journalist from the German Süddeutsche Zeitung daily was among 
a group of foreign journalists invited by the government to visit the city on 
Tuesday.

He described the situation: “The city is in chaos. We just saw a big group of 
Han Chinese trying to enter a mosque. They threw stones but the police stopped 
them.”

Earlier on in the day, hundreds of Uighur women had also gone out onto the 
streets. They demanded the release of family members who have gone missing 
since Sunday. More than 1,400 people are believed to have been arrested.

Bork said: “When they saw us, some Uighur women came running and screaming 
towards us. They had children with them. They said their family members had 
been arrested in the night but they hadn’t done anything. Suddenly the police 
arrived. The women started demonstrating again. This went on for about 1.5 
hours. It was very tense. But because there were over 100 of us foreign 
journalists the police did not use force.”

Ethnic tensions run high

The region has been simmering since a factory brawl in the southern Chinese 
city Shaoguan. last month that killed two Uighurs. Activists say that on 
Sunday, peaceful Uighur demonstrators went out onto People’s Square in Urumqi 
to demand an investigation into the deaths. They accuse the authorities of 
clamping down on them with violence.

The authorities say that the protesters themselves were violent, attacking 
people on the streets, destroying shops and setting fire to cars.

Xinjiang is ethnically divided between Han Chinese and Muslim Uighurs. The 
latter claim they are discriminated against. “In Urumqi and other places, you 
have Uighurs living in a quarter of the towns and these have been completely 
sealed by the police,” said Rudolf Wagner from the University of Heidelberg. 
“So you get into a situation where the original population is ghettoised.”

Internet and phone lines down

Some parts of Urumqi have been totally cut off from the rest of the world 
since Sunday. The authorities have blocked access to the internet and cut 
telephone lines. They have justified these measures by saying they will prevent 
the spread of violence.

The Chinese authorities have accused exiled Uighurs of using electronic means 
to incite violence. The spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry Qin Gang 
addressed reporters in Beijing on Tuesday: “The truth will come to light. The 
authorities will soon reveal the figures and provide evidence. We hope that 
other countries will see the true face of the separatists and will stop 
supporting them.”

International community expresses concern

World Uyghur Congress leader Rebiya Kadeer has denied these claims and has 
demanded an international investigation into the deaths.

The international community has expressed its concerns about the unrest. On 
Tuesday, Navi Pillay, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights called on the 
Chinese authorities and on ethnic groups in Xinjiang to refrain from using 
further violence. She also urged the authorities to treat those arrested in 
line with international law.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel also said she would raise the matter during 
her meeting with Chinese President Hu Jintao at the G8 summit in Italy later 
this week.

Author: Disha Uppal
Editor: Anne Thomas

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>