<ID>20110909-50
<DATE>20110909<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/war-on-terror-widens-ethnic-divide-in-china/a-6614667
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
War on terror widens ethnic divide in China
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The filthy back alleys and packed mosques of the remote western Chinese city of Urumqi are one of the more obscure front lines in the U.S.-backed war on terror, launched after the September 11, 2001 attacks.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Streets crawl with baton-wielding riot police and heavily armed SWAT teams 
brought in for a trade fair. They are a tense reminder that China considers the 
region fertile ground for terrorism and Islamic radicalism, a claim many scoff 
at.

Ten years ago, China used the 9/11 attacks to justify cracking down on what it 
said were al Qaeda-backed extremists who wanted to bring similar carnage to 
Xinjiang, a heavily Muslim region with close cultural links to Central Asia. 
More restrictions on Uighurs, the Turkic-speaking people who call Xinjiang 
home, followed.

Enjoying the economic boom: local Chinese Uighur citizens walk past apparel 
shops on a street in Urumqi

Pumping in yuan

China has used a carrot and stick approach, going after Uighurs it suspects of 
harboring separatist views, but also pumping in billions of yuan to boost 
development and lessen the appeal of the militants.

Annual incomes in rural areas, where most Uighurs live, averaged just 4,600 
yuan ($720) last year, more than 1,000 yuan below the national average and more 
than 5,000 yuan below the

top province, Zhejiang, in eastern China. China's main state-owned companies 
will double their investments in Xinjiang over the next five years to an 
eye-popping 991.6 billion yuan ($155 billion), state media said.

Beijing sees Xinjiang as a bulwark facing the Muslim nations of central Asia, 
and, with a sixth of the country's land mass, as an important and largely empty 
space to offer some relief to the teeming provinces to the east. The land is 
also rich in natural resources, including oil, coal and gas. Any loss of 
control could wreak havoc in the world's second largest economy, whose growth 
Beijing sees as key to maintaining social stability and the Communist Party's 
grip on power.

Police in Xinjiang prepare for deployment in the event of a riot

Ethnic differences

Riots between Uighurs and Han Chinese in Urumqi two years ago killed almost 
200 people, deepening mutual suspicion. "We used to mix with the Chinese but no 
longer. That restaurant there once had many Chinese customers. No one dares to 
come here now," said trader Anwar, pointing across the street to a kebab shop 
in Urumqi's heavily Uighur old quarter.

The Han who dominate Urumqi, rarely venture far into the old quarter and say 
they have little time for the Uighurs. If anything, the Uighurs are treated too 
well, Han Chinese say, spoiled by preferential places at university and no 
restrictions on the number of children they can have.

A ‘label’ for the Uighurs

The rather benign Han view of Uighurs which existed pre-September 11, 2001 as 
wild, slightly lawless but generally affable and colourful people who love 
dancing and singing has been replaced with something much more sinister. "The 
Chinese government has always applied labels to Uighurs who chafe at its rule 
in Xinjiang. They were feudal landlords first, then they were Soviet stooges, 
then they were counter-revolutionaries, then they were separatists and after 
9/11 they became terrorists," says Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher on China for 
Human Rights Watch.

An ethnic Uighur woman with a headscarf

A small number of Uighurs were indeed swept up by the U.S. government during 
the Afghanistan war launched after the 9/11 attacks, though rights groups said 
they were simply in the wrong place at the wrong time, having fled persecution 
at home. Despite Chinese protests, the U.S. ended up ruling they were not 
"enemy combatants", and sent them to a range of countries, including the 
Pacific island state of Palau.

The irony of all the security in Urumqi and elsewhere in Xinjiang is that many 
experts do not consider al Qaeda or its supposed ally, the "East Turkestan 
Islamic Movement", to have

anywhere near the influence China claims. China invariably blames attacks on 
the group, which the United States and United Nations regard as a terrorist 
organization. Still there are doubts about its strength, or even existence.

Reuters
Editor: Grahame Lucas

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>