<ID>20150130-252
<DATE>20150130<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/no-western-values-in-universities-says-china-education-minister/a-18225990
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
No 'Western values' in universities, says China education minister
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
China's education minister has called for strict adherence to communist ideology in university teaching. His remarks come after a number of academics have been dismissed or even imprisoned for their views.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 China's education minister Yuan Guiren has vowed to ban university textbooks 
seen as promoting Western values, state media said on Friday, in another sign 
of anideological clampdown under President Xi Jinping. 


 Universities must not allow any remarks directed against party leaders or 
socialist ideology, Yuan was quoted as saying by the official Xinhua news 
agency.

 Yuan also said that professors should "not complain, vent personal grievances 
or convey negative emotions to their students," according to Xinhua, but 
instead "promote the ideas of Chinese President Xi Jinping in teaching 
materials, classrooms and our minds."

 The ruling Communist Party in China often describes concepts such as 
mulitparty elections and the separation of powers as "Western."

 The minister's comments were made at an academic conference on Thursday, 
attended by the heads of leading institutions including Peking University and 
Tsinghua University, Xinhua said.

Ideological restraints

 They come amid a widening crackdown on dissidents under President Xi that has 
led to a number of academics suffering sacking or even imprisonment for 
espousing views critical of government policy.

 Last year, outspoken economics professor Xia Yeliang was expelled from Peking 
University after calling for democratic reforms. Another economics professor,
Ilham Tohti, 

 was sentenced to life imprisonment in September on separatism charges after he 
championed the rights of the country's Muslim Uighur minority during lectures 
at Minzu University in Beijing.

 Seven of his students were also sentenced to jail terms of between three to 
eight years on separatism charges.

 China's universities are all run by the Communist Party, which keeps a close 
watch on any discussions or teaching that it sees as a potential threat to its 
power.

 tj/gb (AP, AFP, dpa)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>