<ID>20090316-200
<DATE>20090316<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/solar-power-illuminates-chinese-villages/a-5213667
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Solar Power Illuminates Chinese Villages
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
China’s cities are full of energy -- in every sense of the term. But this is not true of the country’s rural areas. Hundreds of villages have never had access to electricity. But things are changing in more than 140 villages at least. Photovoltaic solar panels have been installed to directly convert sunlight into electricity. The Chinese Finance Ministry, a German banking group and the local authorities are financing the scheme. Germany’s biggest solar energy company, Solarworld, is carrying out the work.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

It is very difficult and expensive to provide electricity to many of China’s 
more remote villages, especially those located in the border regions with 
Mongolia, Kazakhstan and Myanmar. The photovoltaic project coordinator Ulrich 
Warna explains:

“Much of the land in the provinces of Yunnan, Xinjiang and Qinghai is very 
sparsely populated. Some places are 50 kilometres away from the next road. And 
some hamlets only have a dozen houses. A connection to the grid is extremely 
expensive. The Chinese government has developed the electricity grid in these 
provinces over the past few years but the very remote villages will only get 
access in some years’ time if at all.”

This is why Warna and his colleagues have chosen to set up photovoltaic 
facilities in these very remote villages.

Advantages of photovoltaic panels

And although photovoltaic panels are expensive the government wants to support 
the project and invest in them as part of its drive to protect the environment.

Solar power is pollution-free during use and waste is low. Once facilities 
have been set up they can operate with little maintenance. Solar electric 
generation is cheaper than grid connection. Moreover, the panels, which are 
made mainly of glass and silicon, are recyclable. Furthermore there are rarely 
power cuts when electricity is solar-powered.

“Instead of using harmful oil lamps, energy-saving lamps can be used thanks to 
the electricity,” says Warna. “The light quality is much better. Clinics and 
hospitals, schools and small businesses can also have better lighting. Mobile 
telephones and televisions can be used. In emergencies, telephones or the 
Internet can be used to contact doctors or order medicine from the next city.”



Replication of the project

For places which do not have landlines, it is a significant development to be 
able to communicate by mobile phone.

If the project is a success, all the actors involved hope that they will be 
able to expand it to other remote parts of China. In future, photovoltaic 
panels might be seen all over the country.

Environmentalists would be happy point out observers, as would the local 
authorities because it goes without saying that the building of photovoltaic 
facilities also generates jobs.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>