<ID>20110131-24
<DATE>20110131<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/uighur-cultural-city-disappearing/a-6423452
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Uighur cultural city disappearing
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Kashgar, an oasis city of the Silk Road, has been on the brink of extinction since the Chinese government introduced a plan to demolish much of the old town of Kashgar two years ago.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Kashgar, an oasis city of the Silk Road, is on the brink of extinction. Since 
the Chinese government introduced a plan to demolish much of the old town of 
Kashgar two years ago, 60-70 per cent of the planned area has already been torn 
down. The president of the World Uyghur Congress, Rebiya Kadeer, came to the EU 
Parliament last week to ask for help.

The city of Kashgar is located in the western extreme of China. It has been 
the capital of many Uighur kingdoms in history. "Kashgar is Uighur, and Uighur 
is Kashgar", says Rebiya Kadeer, who is called by her people "Mother of the 
Uighurs." She says that Kashgar is a symbol for the cultural identity of the 
Uighur people.

Destruction of cultural identity

The conference to save Kashgar was held in Brussels on January 27, 2011

However, this identity is being destroyed. The razing of the old town in 
Kashgar is one example. The local government announced plans to demolish 85 per 
cent of the historical old town and so far 60-70 per cent of it has already 
disappeared. The process is accelerating.

Traditional mud-and-straw buildings along narrow lanes in Kashgar are thought 
by the government to be too fragile for earthquakes. As a result, only around 
10 per cent of the old town will eventually be preserved for touristic purposes.

Rebiya Kadeer asked for help from the European Parliament. A conference was 
held on Thursday in Brussels by Frieda Brepoels, Member of the Greens and 
European Free Alliance parliamentary group. "It is the aim of this conference 
to identify Kashgar's relevance to the Uighur identity of the region, to draw 
attention to China's cultural diversity including the traditions of the ethnic 
Uighur community and to consider Beijing's reconstruction plans and its effect 
for the local people," says Brepoels.

Kashgar as a World Heritage site

The "Mother of the Uyghurs," Rebiya Kadeer, asking to help save Kashgar

Six parliamentarians from different party groups attended the meeting. Frieda 
Brepoels said that was a "very good result." In 2009 the EP passed a resolution 
to call for protection of the cultural rights of Tibetans and Uighurs. "We have 
to go further than that and especially focus on the Kashgar situation. We'll 
definitely have discussions with members who are interested in this in the 
following days and weeks," promises Brepoels.

Rebiya Kadeer also called on the Chinese government to apply to UNESCO to 
recognize Kashgar as a World Heritage site. Two years ago, Beijing took the 
Chinese section of the Silk Road onto a tentative list, but Kashgar was not 
mentioned in it.

Representatives from rights groups pointed out at the conference that what is 
going on in Kashgar is not only a cultural issue, but also a human rights 
issue. Contrary to what the government claims, local people are not consulted 
before demolitions. Many Uighur families are losing their only source of living 
with their small shops and homes being torn down. The degree of dissatisfaction 
among Uighurs is high.

Author: Miao Tian
Editor: Sarah Berning

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>