<ID>20151015-266
<DATE>20151015<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/us-urges-release-of-chinese-dissidents-in-growing-crackdown/a-18784093
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
US urges release of Chinese dissidents in growing crackdown
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Washington has renewed its call for China to release a Christian rights activist and an underage boy suspected to be under house arrest. Secretary of State John Kerry attacked China for imprisoning people without cause.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The United States on Wednesday called on China to release human rights lawyer 
Zhang Kai and said it was concerned by reports that the son of another detained 
rights lawyer had been put under house arrest.

 In releasing the State Department's annual International Religious Freedom 
Report, US Secretary of State John Kerry said Zhang, a Chinese Christian, was 
detained shortly before a meeting in August with the US ambassador for 
international religious freedom, who was visiting China at the time. The US 
envoy told reporters in Washington that three human rights lawyers, four 
pastors and three or four other activists had been detained before he could 
meet them.

 "I urge the release of men and women detained or imprisoned anywhere in the 
world for the peaceful expression and practice of their religious beliefs," 
Kerry told reporters.

 "This includes Mr. Zhang Kai, a Chinese Christian human rights lawyer who was 
detained in late August just prior to a scheduled meeting with Ambassador 
[David] Saperstein, and whose present whereabouts are unknown."

Teenage boy suspected under house arrest

 Separately, the State Department said it was concerned with reports that Bao 
Zhuoxuan, 

 the 16-year-old son of detained rights lawyer Wang Yu and her detained husband 
Bao Longjun, had been put under house arrest in Inner Mongolia, China.
 

Human right lawyer Wang Yu was put under arrest earlier this year

Wang Yu, a lawyer at the Fengrui law firm in Beijing, which defends prominent 
dissidents such as Uighur economist Ilham Tohti, was rounded up with her 
husband and son by state authorities in June. Her son was later released but 
was barred from travel.

 "We urge China to uphold its international human rights commitments and 
protect the health and safety of this minor child," State Department spokesman 
John Kirby said in a statement.

 He added that China should allow Bao to leave the country and to study 
overseas as his family wanted.

 Kirby said that the US was "disturbed by a seemingly systematic campaign by 
China to target family members of Chinese citizens who peacefully challenge 
official policy and work to protect the rights of others."

 Since President Xi Jinping came to power in 2013, the Chinese government has 
taken a harder line towards civil and religious society. More than 200 lawyers 
and activists, including Zhang, were questioned or detained in July as part of 
a sweeping nationwide crackdown. The move has beencondemned by many foreign 
governments. 


 ss/cmk (AFP, dpa, Reuters)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>