<ID>20150915-100
<DATE>20150915<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/thai-police-believe-bangkok-bombing-suspect-is-in-turkey/a-18714540
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Thai police believe Bangkok bombing suspect is in Turkey
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Thai police have said a key suspect in last month's bombing in downtown Bangkok has fled to Turkey. According to police, the attack could be the work of China's ethnic Uighur minority who have sympathizers in Turkey.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Thai police previously said the man, carrying a Chinese passport in the name 
of Abudureheman Abudusataer, may have directed the August 17 bombing of the 
Erawan Shrine in downtown Bangkok.

 Police investigations have revealed that the suspect left Thailand on August 
16 for Bangladesh, and police previously speculated that he might have gone to 
China. However, information gathered by Thai police and Bangladeshi officials 
showed that the man left Bangladesh's capital, Dhaka, and traveled to Istanbul 
on August 30, said national police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri.

 This has strengthened the theory that those responsible for the blast are 
Uighurs 

 from the Chinese region of Xinjiang who have close ties to Turkey.

 However, a senior Turkish government official has denied the claim.

 "There is no record of the suspect having entered Turkey," said the official 
in an email on condition of anonymity, in line with office policy. "Nor have 
the Thai authorities informed us that a terrorism suspect was traveling to 
Turkey."

Two suspects in custody

 Uighurs have long complained of oppression by the Chinese government, and 
some advocate turning Xinjiang into a separate Uighur state. Several of the 12 
bombing suspects for whom arrest warrants have been issued are believed to be 
Turkish.

 Thailand has suggested that those behind the blast may have been from a gang 
involved in smuggling Uighurs. Others have speculated they may be separatists 
or Islamist extremists angry that Thailand repatriated more than 100 Uighurs to 
China in July.

 Two key suspects are in custody, charged with possession of illegal 
explosives. One was captured in an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok, where 
police also discovered bomb-making material. The other was caught near the 
border between Thailand and Cambodia, and police said his fingerprints were 
found on a container with explosive material confiscated from the apartment.

 Also on Monday, Malaysia's police chief announced that a Pakistani and two 
Malaysianshave been detained 

 in connection with the Bangkok bombing.

 av/cmk (AP, Reuters)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>