<ID>20031204-222
<DATE>20031204<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/german-press-review-german-weapons-for-the-red-mandarins/a-1050048
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
German Press Review: "German Weapons for the Red Mandarins"
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
German newspapers commented on Chancellor Gerhard Schröder’s visit to China and his controversial calls for lifting a weapons embargo and offering to sell a plutonium plant.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

In Berlin, the conservative-oriented Die Welt spared no amount of sarcasm in 
praising Schröder’s sudden outpouring of generosity. "German weapons for the 
red mandarins? Certainly, after all, the embargo is costing us jobs," the paper 
waxed. "German plutonium technology to the Middle Kingdom? Why not – the 
red-green anti-nuclear consensus is just domestic folklore anyway. One China 
with Taiwan under the flag of the red dragon? Go right ahead," the editorial 
sneered. The signals coming back from Schröder’s sales tour of China are 
unmistakable," the paper concluded: "You can make my life a misery at home by 
moaning about economic crisis and social reforms -- but just let me off the 
hook and see me sweep aside all moral and political export barriers."

Munich’s Süddeutsche Zeitung also described good business relations with China 
as Schröder’s top priority. It criticized him for brushing aside concerns about 
Beijing’s human rights record. The paper commented that Schröder has failed to 
understand that respect for human rights is a precondition for long-term 
investment; and it warned that any country that fails this test remains 
potentially unstable.

"Travel broadens the mind," declared Berlin’s Tagesspiegel, and added that 
Chancellor Schröder has clearly learned a great deal. "He’s discovered what he 
calls a ‘new China,’ and that seems to be reason enough to drop the arms 
embargo," the paper sighed sarcastically. Although the majority of Chinese have 
more freedom now than they used to, the paper noted, the rights of certain 
individuals are still greatly abused. It cited the persecution of Falun Gong 
followers, as well as of the people in Tibet and Xinjiang. If the chancellor 
pushes human rights issues and China’s threatening behavior towards Taiwan onto 
the sidelines, both he and his China policy will lose all credibility, the 
paper warned.

But some of the smaller papers ventured to offer the chancellor some muted 
support. Dodging the deeper moral issues, theNordbayerischer Kurier from 
Bayreuth said that Schröder’s decision to visit China every year was a clever 
one. Greater cooperation is good for both sides, it maintained. China needs the 
innovation and skills the West can provide, while Germany needs hungry new 
markets to encourage growth.

Looking at the proposal to export the unused plutonium factory in Hanau, the 
Badische Neueste Nachrichten from Karlsruhe remarked that Schröder is not 
entirely in the wrong. Since the controversial plant is not an arms project in 
the conventional sense, it will hardly be possible to prevent it from being 
sold to China, the paper explained.

The eastern German Märkische Oderzeitung agreed. It argued that those in favor 
of nuclear energy will be annoyed that the technology will only be used abroad, 
while Green politicians will be annoyed at the moral loophole in the German 
decision to opt out of nuclear power altogether. But as far as doubts about its 
usage are concerned, the paper noted that Beijing is already officially 
recognized as a nuclear power, and doesn’t need German help to obtain 
weapons-grade plutonium.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>