<ID>20150728-121
<DATE>20150728<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/lack-of-trust-between-turkey-and-china/a-18611874
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Lack of trust between Turkey and China
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Turkish President Erdogan is traveling to Beijing to mend ties between the two countries. The Turkish leader is expected to discuss a number of contentious issues with the Chinese leadership, including the Uighur crisis.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has a lot to discuss with his Chinese 
hosts in Beijing during his two-day official visit which ends on July 30. 
Relations between the two countries have been strained for quite some time.

 Recently, thousands of Turkish people staged a demonstration outside the 
Chinese embassy in Ankara against the treatment of the Muslim Uighur community 
in China's Xinjiang province. Prior to that, the Turkish media reported that 
Chinese authorities were not allowing the Uighurs to fast during the Muslim 
holy month of Ramadan, and that they were even forcing them to consume alcohol.

 The police used tear gas to disperse the angry protesters, who also attacked 
Chinese tourists. The situation forced the Chinese embassy in Ankara to send 
out a travel advisory to its citizens traveling to Turkey.
  
Thousands protested outside the Chinese embassy in Ankara

Solidarity with the 'Uighur brethren'

 The Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking ethnic group, live predominantly in China's 
northwestern Xinjiang region. The province has been volatile for decades, as 
the Uighurs complain about being culturally, socially and economically 
suppressed by the majority Han Chinese. The government denies these claims and 
says the Uighur community enjoys freedom and a good standard of living in 
Xinjiang. The authorities, at the same time, accuse some Uighur groups of being 
involved in separatist activities.

 The Turkish people feel the Uighurs are culturally and religiously closer to 
them than China. The country's leaders have repeatedly criticized Beijing's 
treatment of the Muslim minority. In 2009, Erdogan, who was then prime 
minister, described the bloody riots in Xinjiang, which left more than 180 
people dead, as "a kind of genocide."

 After a short tense period between the two countries, relations have improved 
again, although the Uighur issue continues to cause friction. Since last year, 
thousands of Uighurs have fled to Turkey. Beijing claims that several hundred 
Chinese nationals, predominantly Uighurs, have also gone to Syria via Turkey to 
join the extremist "Islamic State" group. Chinese authorities fear the Uighurs' 
exposure to jihadist networks in the region could create more unrest in 
Xinjiang.

Ups and downs

 "Relations between the two countries have their ups and downs," Umut Erguns端, 
a political scientist at China-based Peking University, told DW. But while the 
feeling of solidarity with the Uighurs is especially strong amongst nationalist 
Turks, the debate is largely based on emotions rather than on actual knowledge 
about the Xinjiang region, Erguns端 explained.
  
Turkey depends on imports from China

 On the other hand, Turkey needs China as an economic partner. China is the 
second-largest importer into Turkey after Russia, with bilateral trade reaching 
$28 billion (25 billion euros) in 2014. But the trade volume is tilted in 
Beijing's favor, with China exporting eight times more to Turkey than vice 
versa.

 China, hence, accounts for a fourth of the total Turkish trade deficit. While 
imports from China cannot be replaced by the Turkish industry, China can choose 
whether it buys its products from Turkey or somewhere else, said Erguns端, 
adding that "despite the occasional aggressive rhetoric coming from Turkey, the 
fact of the matter is that Turkey must cooperate with China."

Turkey and the new Silk Road

 The analyst explains that China's plans for a new Silk Road will play an 
important role in future bilateral relations. The Chinese government is seeking 
to build new ports, railroads and airports along the ancient trade route and 
Turkey is expected to play a key part in the scheme given its geographic 
location.

 "Turkey will certainly become a distribution hub, enabling not only the 
distribution of Chinese products across Europe, but also the strengthening of 
Turkey's ties with Central Asian states," said Erguns端.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>