<ID>20150420-139
<DATE>20150420<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/chinas-xi-jinping-to-visit-pakistan-invest-46-billion/a-18393074
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China's Xi Jinping to visit Pakistan, invest $46 billion
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Chinese President Xi Jinping is heading to Islamabad, where he will unveil investments worth $46 billion. The move is seen as Beijing's attempt to increase its influence in Asia.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Xi Jinping, China's president, was scheduled to launch $46 billion (43 
billion euros) worth of investments in energy and infrastructure on his visit 
to Pakistan on Monday.

 "Pakistan, for China, is now of pivotal importance. This has to succeed," 
Mushahid Hussain Sayed, chairman of the Pakistani parliament's defense 
committee, told the Reuters news agency about the partnership.

China's ambitious CPEC corridor

 Xi's two-day visit would include a speech in Pakistan's parliament and 
announcements related to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which 
would link Pakistan's southern Gwadar port (pictured above) on the Arabian Sea 
with China's western Xinjiang region. Pakistan transferred control over Gwadar 
to a Chinese public company in 2013.

 The CPEC also included plans to create road, rail and oil pipeline links 
between China and the Middle East. China would invest about 34 billion dollars 
in energy projects, Ahsan Iqbal, Pakistan's minister for planning and 
development told journalists.

 "The real opportunity of this China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is that it 
changes the scope of the relationship from geopolitics to geoeconomics," Iqbal 
argued, adding that the projects would have a "significant transformative 
effect on Pakistan's economy."

Islamist insurgency a big threat

 The two military allies face several challenges in the implementation of the 
project, the biggest being that of Islamist militants active in Pakistan's 
Baluchistan state. China was also worried about Muslim terrorists from its 
Xinjiang province joining hands with terrorists in Pakistan.

 "China and Pakistan need to align security concerns more closely to 
strengthen security cooperation," President Xi said in an address to 
journalists a day before his trip to Islamabad. "Our cooperation in the 
security and economic fields reinforce each other and they must be advanced 
simultaneously," he added.

 China's expanded investment in Pakistan is seen as an attempt to increase the 
country's dominance in Asia and offset US and Indian influence. This is the 
first visit by a Chinese head of state to Pakistan in the last nine years.

 In 2013, Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif visited Beijing to seal 
important energy deals 
. 
China's investment has raised hope among Pakistan's people, but first problems 
like jihadist violence and improving infrastructure need to be tackled.

 mg/jil (AFP, Reuters)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>