<ID>20080617-95
<DATE>20080617<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=12527
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/The-Olympic-Torch-arrives-in-Xinjiang,-as-the-death-sentence-awaits-the-Uyghurs-12527.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
The Olympic Torch arrives in Xinjiang, as the death sentence awaits the Uyghurs
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Tight security measures are put in place in the Muslim region for fear of terrorist attacks. Beijing claims sound relations between minorities but the Uyghur’s seek autonomy and greater freedom from Chinese colonisation. Dozens of Uyghur’s charged with “terrorism” await trial and the death sentence.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews/Agencies) – The Olympic torch today began its three day tour 
of Xinjiang region, where Beijing fears terrorist attacks from local Muslim 
minorities. The torch’s itinerary, which takes in four cities, started out 
today in Urumqi’s central peoples’ square, amidst police security checks and 
crowds controlled by metal detectors.  The local government advised people not 
to participate in the event but to watch it on the TV from the safety of their 
homes.  Of the 3 thousand people who made their way to the square, the vast 
majority were Chinese, with very few Uyghur’s, the original local Muslim 
population.   Before the commencement of ceremonies a minutes silence was 
observed in memory of the victims of the Sichuan earthquake. Banners and signs 
proclaimed that the minorities present in the region “get along well”.

The reality is that the situation in Xinjiang closely resembles that of Tibet. 
 The 9 million Uyghur’s of Turkmen origin who have their own language and are 
of Islamic religion seek greater autonomy and more influence on the economic, 
political and social well being of the region, currently dominated by colony’s 
of Han (ethnic Chinese). For decades Beijing has exercised a violent control 
policy on the mosques, schools and people, justifying its actions with its fear 
of terrorism. Months ago the Chinese government accused groups of planning 
terrorist attacks in the run up to the Olympics. But local and exiled Uyghurs 
claim the declarations are false and that they aim to justify China’s heavy 
handedness in the region.

The testimonies of some Uyghurs reveal that police have stopped thousands of 
Muslims confiscating their passports.

The Hong Kong based human rights and democracy centre reports that there are 
at least 65 activists from Xinjiang awaiting trial and being held on terrorism 
charges. The human rights group confirms that these people have been charged 
with plotting to sabotage the Olympic Games adding that at least 20 of these 
risk the death penalty.

Tomorrow the torch arrives in Kashgar; later in the week it will pass through 
the cities of Shihezi and Changji.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>