<ID>20110805-68
<DATE>20110805<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-warns-the-Uyghurs-it's-ready-to-kill-anyone-who-protests--22294.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing "warns" the Uyghurs it's ready to kill anyone who protests 
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The Chinese authorities the northern province of Xinjiang post pictures of the last two Uyghurs killed in cold blood a few days ago on its website and warns: "They could be taken alive." Analysts explained: "A clear message: those who rebel will be shot." 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

 Urumqi (AsiaNews) - Chinese authorities "are sending a clear message to the 
Uyghur minority in Xinjiang: those who rebel against the domination of Beijing 
will be unceremoniously killed”, say a number of analysts the day after the 
disturbing announcement on the website of the government of the autonomous 
province of Xinjiang, where the authorities have posted a photograph of two 
Uyghurs (pictured) murdered in cold blood after a being pursued by police and 
who “could have been taken alive."

 On August 1, Chinese police gunned down the two Uyghurs, suspected of being 
involved in the July 31 attack that caused the death of six people in a bar in 
Kashgar, in cold blood. The two - Memtieli Tiliwaldi (29) and Turson Hasan (34) 
- were killed in a cornfield and left there. Kashgar's government had put a 
bounty of 100 thousand yuan (about 10 thousand euros) for their capture.

 Before this latest bloody episode there were other violent events in the city 
of Hotan and in the provincial capital, Urumqi. Since 1949, the ethnic Uyghur – 
Turkic speaking Muslims- have been under the heel of the Chinese government 
which has imposed a series of extreme religious and cultural restrictions on 
them. Several groups claim independence and call for the restoration of East 
Turkestan, but the majority of Uyghurs are simply seeking greater autonomy.

 In 2009, the region was the scene of violent clashes between Uyghurs and Han 
Chinese immigrants. Clashes in the capital Urumqi at the time claimed the lives 
of more than 200 people. Today, two years later, tensions are soaring once 
again. According to the Chinese authorities, the Uyghurs carried out a 
"coordinated terrorist attack" against a police station and officers were 
forced to respond with force. Instead, for the World Uyghur Congress, the 
police have "beaten to death" 14 people who were demonstrating peacefully, and 
then shot 6 other people.

 Ilyar Shemseddin, a Uyghur analyst with who live in the U.S., explains: 
"China, do not view Uyghurs as Chinese citizens and, instead, treat them like 
“foreign forces to be destroyed. If China really accepted these Uyghurs as 
Chinese citizens, they would not be killed like dogs in the streets, partly 
because even the most violent demonstrators were armed at most with knives, 
while the police have guns and are not afraid to use them. "


<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>