<ID>20141127-16
<DATE>20141127<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-seven-university-students-on-trial-for-collaborating-with-Ilham-Tohti-32810.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang, seven university students on trial for collaborating with Ilham Tohti
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The group had disappeared into thin air in January. The authorities claims they are guilty of aiding the Uighur professor to "foment separatism" through a website. Lawyer: "It was a platform for debate among China’s ethnic minorities”. They now risk from five to 15 years in prison.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) - Authorities in the northwestern province of Xinjiang have 
put seven ethnic  Uighur college students on trial for being "connected" with 
Ilham Tohti. The professor, who is also  Uighur,was sentenced to life 
imprisonment in September 2014 

 on charges of separatism. Tohti has always rejected this ruling, and the final 
communiqué read in the courts reaffirmed his love for China and belief that the 
ethnic issue can only be resolved through dialogue.

Tohti was arrested last January, 

 after criticizing Beijing's policy followingthe attack in Tiananmen Square 

, in October 2013, attributed to some  Uighurs. The government's response to 
the attack was the increase in the repression of the Xinjiang region. For 
years, Tohti, calls on the government to open a real dialogue with the Uighurs 
to understand their difficulties and in 2005 opened on the internet website 
Uighur Online, to meet Uighurs and Han (Chinese). According to the accusers is 
this site the test of "separatism" academician.

The arrested university students are charged with being "collaborators" on the 
website. Tohti's lawyer Li Fangping, confirms the facts but stresses that 
 Uighur Online "promotes dialogue and confrontation between the ethnic Muslim 
Chinese and other ethnic groups". The students, who disappeared after being 
taken into custody last January, now face five to 15 years in prison.

The province is one of the most turbulent in all of China. Its Uighur Muslim 
minority, who number about nine million, have long sought independence from 
China. The central government, for its part, has brought in hundreds of 
thousands of settlers to make Han Chinese the dominant ethnic group.  At the 
same time, it has severely curtailed Muslim religious worship as well as the 
teaching of the local language and culture.

Since 2009 Chinese police and the military have held the region under a 
special regime, which Beijing imposed followingclashes that left nearly 200 
people dead 

. As a result of various episodes of violence, hundreds of long prison 
sentences were imposed and dozens of death penalties were carried out.

Chinese authorities blame Muslim extremists for the wave of violence. Uighur 
exiles claim instead that Beijing is "exaggerating" the threat of Islamic 
terrorism to justify repression against indigenous Uighurs.  For Beijing, 
Uighurs are responsible for the recent spate of violent attacks, including the 
1 March 2014attack at the Kunming railway station 

 by knives-wielding men that left 29 people dead and more than 150 wounded, and 
the 28 October 2013 incident whenan SUV plunged into a crowd in Tiananmen Square
 

, then burst into flames, killing three people. The government believes that 
separatists from the ethnic minority are behind the attack:  following 
investigations Tohti and his students were put on trial.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>