
The Central Asian nation's worst ethnic violence in decades, which has 
reportedly left at least 179 people dead, many more injured and has forced tens 
of thousands to flee their homes, has wider implications in a region full of 
strategic and geopolitical importance for the world's biggest powers.

The violence that erupted on Friday between Kyrgyz and Uzbek clans may have 
been ignited by the escalating tensions between the country's two dominant 
ethnic groups but the conditions for the fighting have been created by the 
on-going unstable political situation in Kyrgyzstan; a situation that has the 
fingerprints of the world's most influential nations all over it.

Kyrgyzstan's wider role in international affairs is such that Russia and the 
United States continue to jostle for military influence there while China, 
which shares a 530-mile border with Kyrgyzstan, pursues significant strategic 
and economic interests in the country and its surrounding region.

This most recent uprising stems from the ousting of the Washington-friendly 
regime of President Kurmanbek Bakiyev in April which left the country in 
turmoil. Bakiyev's removal from power and the rise to power of the current 
provisional government has not only allowed ethnic tensions to reach boiling 
point in Kyrgyzstan but could trigger a new struggle for proxy control of the 
country and the regional benefits which come with it.

Bakiyev's installation as president in 2005 with US backing may have provided 
Washington with a friendly government with whom to do business with but it also 
gave the US a significant foothold in a country that some strategists believe 
is paramount to its plans for regional dominance.

Regional unrest could put US objectives under threat

Unrest may put the US base at Manas under threat

Experts say that it has been a prime US strategic objective to increase its 
influence in the former Soviet states of Central Asia since the collapse of the 
Soviet Union in 1991. The inclusion of Kyrgyzstan and three other central Asian 
states in NATO's Partnership for Peace program in 1994, was seen as a major 
step toward increasing US military presence in the region which eventually led 
to the US base at Manas, outside Bishkek in the north, being established.

"During the April unrest, the US Manas Airbase was closed and the vital supply 
route for sending military hardware and troops to Afghanistan was not being 
used," Asher Pirt, an expert on Central Asian affairs and military issues, told 
Deutsche Welle. "The US needs a stable Kyrgyzstan in order to keep the supply 
route working."

"There is also the possibility of Uzbek intervention in the restive Osh region 
due to the fact that Uzbeks are being killed and hurt in the violence and any 
such intervention is likely to lead to further instability and will continue 
cause problems with the US principle supply route to Afghanistan and its troops 
deployed there," he added.

"Another issue is if the instability spreads throughout the rest of Central 
Asia and there is a rise of Islamic extremism this could significantly affect 
US interests in the region.‚Äù

US presence increases Russia's concern over NATO plans

While Manas remains a key hub for US operations in Afghanistan, it is also 
used as a NATO base - a situation which angers and concerns Russia which fears 
the eastern enlargement of its former Cold War opponent, putting Kyrgyzstan at 
the center of a power struggle for regional influence.

Medvedev wants a friendly government in Bishkek

"The current unrest is a major threat to the authority of the Kyrgyz 
government," Dex Torrike-Barton, an international security analyst, told 
Deutsche Welle from Kyrgyzstan.

"The provisional government is still very weak. If violence spreads beyond the 
cities currently affected, then we could see major political instability. In 
that context, all bets are off the table on whether the US can retain its 
airbase in the country. There are plenty of political factions in Kyrgyzstan 
who don't want to see the Americans keep any sort of foothold in the country. 
If Russia or the Collective Security Treaty Organisation - the regional defence 
alliance - ultimately ends up intervening, the same result is likely."

Russia, which itself has its own military base at the Kant airbase near 
Bishkek and a strategic naval base on Lake Issyk-Kul, is highly suspicious of 
the United States' interest in Kyrgyzstan and the wider Eurasian region. Since 
the US-backed Bakiyev regime was ousted in April, Moscow has unsurprisingly 
been the biggest supporter of the new provisional government, presumably in the 
hope that if order is restored the swing of influence will return to Russia.

Washington's plans for the regions sit very uncomfortably with the Kremlin. 
While the US may justify that its increased influence is mutually beneficial by 
claiming its presence will help stop the spread of Islamic fundamentalism in 
Central Asia and solve the hugely destabilizing problem of Afghanistan, Russia 
believes the US has another agenda. The Kremlin says that Washington is aiming 
to prevent Russian and/or Chinese hegemony while securing energy resources and 
pipelines.

Read more about the volatile situation in Kyrgyzstan

Moscow fears ethnic instability on Russia's borders

Russia has its own interests of course. As well as the obvious future of 
regional energy security, Russian domestic security is heavily linked to the 
stability of the countries on its borders. Regardless of whether there is a 
Kremlin-friendly regime in place or not, Kyrgyzstan is of huge importance when 
it comes to the stability or instability of Russia's neighbours.

With states throughout Russia's Central Asian periphery simmering with ethnic 
tensions, Moscow doesn't need a civil war sparking a wider conflict on its 
doorstep, one which could spread to within its borders and explode in its 
cities.

Russia wants to avoid a spread of unrest around its borders

"Russia wants a stable international neighbourhood," Torrike-Barton said. 
"Violence, especially with an ethnic or religious dimension, could potentially 
become contagious throughout the region. The brutalization of the Uzbek 
community in Kyrgyzstan could fuel Islamic extremism - and there is no greater 
nightmare for a Russian state still dealing with insurgent forces in the 
Caucasus."

"It is not in Russia's interests to have an unstable Kyrgyz Republic as it 
will affect their interests in Central Asia," Asher Pirt added. "The main 
interest is the fact that Moscow is concerned about instability spreading from 
the region to its own country. A stable region without ethnic unrest or 
religious extremism is a strategic goal for Russia. Furthermore, Moscow cares 
about the status and the wellbeing of its ethnic Russians or compatriots."

"Russia is unlikely to intervene unless it felt that the situation was going 
to make the region unstable or ethnic Russians or compatriots were in danger. 
However, the Kyrgyz Provisional Government would very much like the Russians to 
intervene. At present it is unlikely that this will happen but if the violence 
escalates, Moscow might decide that it has to."

Russia is also concerned about the possibility of being encircled by NATO 
member states should the alliance go ahead with its provocative eastern 
enlargement. Having Kyrgyzstan onside, especially as a partner in the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization - the emerging Eurasian economic and military 
cooperation organization - would mean that Russia would continue to have a 
significant obstacle in its plan to block NATO expansion.

China wants to protect economic interests, secrets from US

China's border with Kyrgyzstan presents its own problems

China also has much to be concerned about. Beijing has clear strategic 
interests in a stable and friendly Kyrgyzstan but also in keeping the United 
States from dominating the region.

China was the main financial benefactor of President Askar Akayev, a former 
US-backed leader who was dropped by Washington as soon as he took China's cash, 
and its huge economic clout remains Beijing's strongest weapon in retaining a 
foothold in Kyrgyzstan. While this is seen as crucial for China's own plan of 
spreading its influence throughout Central Asia, it is also an important factor 
in reducing the chances of the US doing the same.

The Chinese see increasing US influence as not only a threat to its plans for 
Eurasia, which along with promoting its emerging market policy also includes 
energy security and supply, but also a threat to the People's Republic itself.

China's border with Kyrgyzstan runs along the outer reaches of the politically 
sensitive Xinjiang Province where ethnic Uighurs rioted in July 2009.

"Kyrgyzstan is the number one export market for Xinjiang," said 
Torrike-Barton. "It's a profitable destination for Chinese goods and labourers, 
so there's an important economic dimension driving Chinese policy toward 
Kyrgyzstan. But like Russia, the key priority is security. An unstable 
Kyrgyzstan with a restive Muslim population does not help Chinese efforts to 
preserve stability in Xinjiang and the Uighur community."

While Beijing would be concerned by the possibility of an upsurge in ethnic 
violence stirring up further unrest in Xinjiang, it is more concerned that the 
porous nature of the border is allowing US intelligence agencies to run covert 
destabilizing operations into the strategically vital and politically fragile 
province. Beijing believes the flow of people across the border gives US 
operations a perfect cover.

"China is unlikely to intervene in the crisis, and despite its economic 
influence and status as a patron for many Kyrgyz politicians, has limited 
capacity to affect the current situation," Torrike-Barton added. "Without 
greater Chinese involvement in settling the violence, I doubt we'll see many 
repercussions for US-China relations."

With so much suspicion, distrust and power games at play bteween the world's 
most powerful nations, the future of Kyrgyzstan may not only shape the region 
but have an equally important influence on global politics.

Author: Nick Amies

Editor: Rob Mudge
