<ID>20050926-30
<DATE>20050926<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/HK-pro-democracy-lawmakers-and-Chinese-Communist-officials-talk-about-Tiananmen-4199.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
HK pro-democracy lawmakers and Chinese Communist officials talk about Tiananmen
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
For the first time since 1989 members of Hong Kong Democratic Party visit Guangdong. A small step towards dialogue, but the "way is still long".
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
 

 

Guangzhou (AsiaNews/SCMP)  Pro-democracy Hong Kong lawmakers returned to the 
mainland yesterday after 16 years of forced absence for 'face-to-face' talks 
with mainland officials about the June 4, 1989, Tiananmen crackdown.

On the first of the two-day visit, four of the 59 visiting Hong Kong 
Legislative Council (LegCo) members asked Zhang Dejiang, Guangdong Communist 
Party chief and Politburo member, to reverse the official verdict on June 4, 
the student movement and its bloody denouement.

Zhang replied saying that "[i]f there is no common ground, there is no point 
for discussion," then asserted that the central government had made the right 
decision on June 4. Some of the other LegCo members reacted to Mr Zhang's reply 
with a round of applause.

Lee Cheuk-yan, LegCo member, trade union leader and member of the Hong Kong 
Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China, said that "Mr 
Zhang replied that our opinions [on June 4] did not represent the views of Hong 
Kong people, or could only reflect the views of a small number of people in 
Hong Kong at the most."

But Emily Lau Wai-hing, who is affiliated with the 'Frontier', one of Beijing 
least favourite pro-Democracy groups, said that Mr Zhang showed a dismissive 
attitude throughout and had no wish to listen to opposition views.

Never the less, she was still positive about the meeting. "Today's not a 
failure as we've made the first step. I hope the mainland government continues 
to have a lenient attitude and be more tolerant," she said.

Chief Executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen, who led the delegation, played down the 
confrontation, describing the atmosphere as good. "I think the dialogue was 
frank and constructive. It can eliminate much misunderstanding on the issue," 
he said.

For his part, Democratic Party chairman Lee Wing-tat said that "[a]lthough we 
have different views, it will not prevent future communication. We can't expect 
to solve all our differences with just one meeting."

Guangdong provincial government spokesman Li Shoujin said the Guangdong 
authorities adopted an indulgent approach towards their guests. The leaders of 
the Territory's three major political parties, including Mr Lee, were given 
front row seats in the meeting with Mr Zhang.

Former Democratic Party chairman Martin Lee Chu-mingwho was last year branded 
a traitor by one senior mainland officialjoined Shenzhen Party Secretary Li 
Hongzhong and Mayor Xu Zongheng at the head table at a lunch hosted by the 
Shenzhen government.

His last visit to the mainland was in 1989 when he was arrested after the June 
4 massacre and sent packing back to Hong Kong.

Speaking to the South China Morning Post, he said that "[t]his trip shows that 
we (pro-democracy activists) should continue to stand firm on our principles. . 
. . I have only seen a small part of China, since we are only in Guangdong, and 
I have only seen what I was allowed to see and what has been shown to me. I can 
certainly see a lot of developments in Guangdong. Certainly, it has made huge 
progress with the blessing of Beijing. [And] I think it will overtake Hong Kong 
very soon in terms of economic development. But we have something that I don't 
believe they have, and that is the rule of law. My view is firmer than ever 
that Hong Kong has to maintain and consolidate the rule of law. The rule of law 
is the best thing we have in Hong Kong."

Despite the excitement generated by this historic trip, the visiting LegCo 
members complained that "the slow boat to China" made too many stops in so 
little time.

Beijing was very slow in dealing with these lawmakers in the past few years, 
but once allowed into China, they were taken on a whirlwind tour in a two-day, 
all-you-can-see' package headed by Hong Kong's Chief Executive.

"This trip was really very hectic," Emily Lau Wai-hing said. "I don't think we 
spent more than three minutes here and four minutes there."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>