<ID>20090714-95
<DATE>20090714<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=15775
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Tension-in-Urumqi.-Al-Qaeda-threatens-China-15775.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Tension in Urumqi. "Al Qaeda" threatens China
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
An Algerian Islamic group has promised revenge against Chinese companies in North Africa. Demonstrations in Jakarta for a jihad against Beijing. Iranian Ayatollah condemns the suppression of Uyghur’s and criticises the silence of the government in Tehran, a friend of China. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Stores bolted closed,  mosques shut: this is 
the image of the capital of Xinjiang, a day after the killing of two Uyghur’s 
by two policemen. Meanwhile, groups in some way linked to Al Qaeda have 
launched a Jihad, or holy war against China and have promised to avenge the 
blood of Uyghurs against Chinese commercial interests in the world.

Even today, soldiers and security personnel armed with machine guns and 
truncheons are patrolling roads especially in the area where yesterday the 
murder took place.

The police say they intervened because three Uyghur’s were assaulting a fourth 
and at the violent response of two of the attackers they were forced to open 
fire killing two and wounding a third. Instead witnesses say that the three, 
exiting a mosque and armed with knives, tried to attack the police, who 
responded with fire. The incident shows the height of tension in the city, 
after the interethnic clashes last week, and also shows that the police is not 
seen as the guarantor of order, but as an enemy of the Uyghur’s.

The Chinese media, to defuse the tension, continue to show the great love of 
people towards soldiers and police. 

The Muslims Uyghur population has suffered decades of political, social and 
economic exclusion in the region rich in oil and gas. China tries to maintain 
control through a heavy military presence, justified by charges of terrorism. 
Indeed, some groups in the past have been responsible for acts of violence, but 
most of the population is only asking for greater autonomy and religious 
freedom. Beijing, to prevent the emergence of Islamic fundamentalism, keeps 
tight control of the entire religious life of the Uyghur’s. In the face of last 
week’s clashes, the Islamic world in general has kept a low profile. Only 
groups of Uyghur’s and Turks abroad - who have the same ethnic and linguistic 
roots - have demonstrated against Beijing.

According to Stirling Assynt, a think-tank for global companies, an Algerian 
Islamic group affiliated with Al Qaeda has launched messages threatening 
revenge against Chinese companies in North Africa. If this is confirmed, it 
would be the first time that the network of Osama bin Laden has directly 
threatened China. According to Stirling Assynt, threats against China and its 
trade representations abroad are growing in the jihadist world.

Yesterday, dozens of Indonesian Muslims clashed with guards protecting the 
Chinese Embassy in Jakarta. They were demanding that the Indonesian government 
take measures against China and shouted slogans for a jihad in favour of the 
Uyghurs. Some posters sported slogans like "Stop the genocide of Muslims in 
Xinjiang."

Two days ago, the Grand Ayatollah Naser Makarem Shirazi condemned the violence 
against the Uyghur’s and the silence of the Iranian government. "It's true - he 
said - that the Chinese government and its people have close economic and 
political ties with us and other Islamic countries, but this is no reason for 
them to horribly suppress our Muslim brothers and sisters."
  
<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>