<ID>20090307-96
<DATE>20090307<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=14665
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-on-alert-against-revolts-in-Tibet-and-Xinjiang-14665.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing on alert against revolts in Tibet and Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Accusations of separatism against the Dalai Lama and the Uyghurs. Soldiers, policemen, security personnel on the increase to prevent any attempts at uprising. The foreign minister criticizes countries that welcome the Dalai Lama, seen as merely "a political leader." The Dalai Lama is asking only for autonomy in order to save the Tibetans from cultural genocide. An Uyghur academic asks for more help for the Muslim group, in the grip of unemployment.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) -The Chinese authorities have deployed troops and 
strategies to prevent any revolts in Tibet and Xinjiang, both of them guilty, 
together with "hostile forces," of wanting to destroy "national unity." The 
Dalai Lama says he is concerned about the tension; moderate Uyghurs accuse the 
government of impoverishing the population.

 In a study group connected to the National People's Congress (NPC), underway 
at the capital, the governor of Tibet, Qiangba Puncog, stated yesterday that 
his government has implemented preventive measures to monitor any threat 
against security in the region. "There won't be another riot as big as what 
happened on March 14 last year . . . That said, it is still likely that some 
individual supporters of the Dalai Lama may take the risk of making reckless 
moves." Qiangba Puncong has continued to criticize the Dalai Lama and his 
government in exile, saying that they constitute a threat to stability in the 
region. Today, foreign minister Yang Jiechi also accused the Dalai Lama of not 
being "by any means a religious leader, but political," who is seeking to 
"separate Tibet from China." Yang also criticized those countries that invite 
the Tibetan religious leader. "Other nations," he said, "should not permit 
visits by the Dalai, and should not permit him to use their territory for 
secessionist activities."

 For years, the Dalai Lama has reiterated his desire to return to Tibet, 
asking only for cultural and religious autonomy in order to save the Tibetans 
from cultural genocide, but Beijing accuses him of separatist activities. In 
recent weeks, the Tibetan religious leader has often said that he is concerned 
about the increasing tension in Tibet, which could lead to clashes and more 
deaths and arrests, as happened last year. This year is also the 50th 
anniversary of the Tibetan revolt in 1959, which was suffocated with military 
repression and led to the exile of the Dalai Lama. "It's necessary to increase 
the number of the armed police, police, firemen, border forces and public 
security," Qiangba Puncong says.

In Xinjiang as well, where the Uyghur community is asking for greater 
autonomy, Beijing is providing extra military control. This year, China wants 
to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the "peaceful liberation" of Xinjiang, 
with the entry of the Chinese army into the region. But many Uyghurs see this 
as an invasion. Yesterday, again during a study group at the NPC, the governor 
of Xinjiang, Nur Bekri, said that "the task of security will be more arduous, 
and the struggle more fierce in the region this year . . . It's a time of 
celebration for Xinjiang people, but hostile forces will not pass on such an 
opportunity to destroy it." Last year, in order to prevent "terrorist attacks" 
at the Olympics, Beijing arrested more than 1,000 Uyghurs.

But personalities of this Muslim ethnicity accuse the Chinese government of 
being insensitive to the group's basic economic necessities. According to Ilham 
Tohti, professor of economics at the central university for the nationalities 
in Beijing, the most serious problem for the Uyghurs is unemployment. This is 
due to the marginalization of the group from administrative structures and 
state industries, and to the policy of colonization, which every year transfers 
thousands of Han Chinese to the region. In an interview withRadio Free Asia, 
Tohti accused Governor Behkri of insensitivity toward the Uyghurs: "Heâ€™s always 
stressed the stability and security of Xinjiang and threatened Uyghurs. 
Xinjiang has developed, but the people are living in poverty, especially 
Uyghurs."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>