<ID>20110720-79
<DATE>20110720<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-admits:-at-least-18-dead-in-Xinjiang--22149.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing admits: at least 18 dead in Xinjiang 
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Rise in number of "official" victims in yesterdayâ€™s clashes in Hotan between police and a group of ethnic Uyghur residents. However, the government continues to talk about "terrorism".
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

 Beijing (AsiaNews / Agencies) - The Chinese government this morning made a 
u-turn on yesterday's clashes that rocked the northern province of Xinjiang and 
has admitted that the death toll is "at least 18", 14 "violent offenders", 2 
police and officers 2 hostages. However, Beijing continues to define the 
fighting as "terrorism", while for the World Uighur Congress - the 
non-governmental organization that follows the situation of ethnic group, the 
once dominant majority in the province - it was a massacre orchestrated by the 
police.

 Chinese police opened fire on a group of Uyghur demonstrators who, in the 
desert town of Hotan, protested against the forced confiscation of their lands 
and indiscriminate arrests against members of the ethnic group, one of the most 
feared by Beijing. According to a report published today by the provincial 
government, however, "a group of terrorists armed with explosives and axes 
tried to set fire to the local police station."

 Clashes in the province are a regular occurrence, but yesterday was the worst 
last year. Beijing needs stability in the area, rich in raw materials and in 
order to obtain this has promoted a massive immigration of Han, the dominant 
ethnic group in the country. The Uyghurs, the region's Muslim Turkic-speaking 
indigenous constitute less than half the population, after decades of 
immigration from other areas of the People's Republic.

 Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Congress, complains: "China has strengthened 
repression and control over the population, and this has greatly worsened the 
situation. Beijing uses brute force to suppress any protest by Uyghurs, even 
the most peaceful. "

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>