<ID>20100324-204
<DATE>20100324<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/china-pledges-more-aid-to-afghanistan/a-5386139
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China pledges more aid to Afghanistan
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
As Afghan President Karzai continued his three-day visit to China, he met his Chinese counterpart Hu Jintao in Beijing. They discussed issues ranging from regional security to Chinese investment in Afghanistan.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Three agreements on trade and economic co-operation were signed in the 
presence of Afghan President Hamid Karzai and his Chinese counterpart Hu Jintao 
on Wednesday. One was for more economic aid to war-torn Afghanistan.

China, which has no troops in Afghanistan, has already given aid worth 130 
million euros to Afghanistan since 2002. The money has mainly been used for 
reconstruction projects. President Karzai, who is travelling with some 20 
business executives, is keen for China to invest even more.

In 2004, 11 Chinese road workers were killed in Afganistan and four were 
injured

"Afghanistan’s attempts to boost ties with neighboring countries in areas such 
as business will be good for security and peace. More importantly, China is 
only interested in Afghanistan from an economics point of view, not political," 
said Saifuddin Saihoon, an economics expert in Kabul.

Karzai thanks China for support and aid

The Chinese state media reported during the closed-door talks in Beijing that 
the Afghan president had thanked China for its support and aid and said that it 
had a very important role to play for stability in Afghanistan and the region.

Hu Jintao, for his part, said China wanted to "advance practical cooperation" 
with Afghanistan and "lift the two countries' comprehensive partnership to new 
levels."

In part, this "comprehensive partnership" involves China tapping into 
Afghanistan’s vast natural resources.

"China will increasingly buy natural and mineral resources from Afghanistan," 
explained Niklas Swanstroem from the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk 
Road Studies Program in Stockholm. "The problem is that Afghanistan doesn’t 
have the infrastructure to transport them to China. A practical measure would 
be to improve infrastructure in Afghanistan."

In 2008, a group of Chinese firms won a contract to develop the vast Aynak 
copper mine south of Kabul. The mine is expected to start production in three 
or four years, although violence in the country has hampered progress.

A delegation from the state-owned China Metallurgical Group Corporation visits 
the copper mine in Aynak south of Kabul

Fighting terrorism and organized cross-border crime

In the Beijing talks on Wednesday, the two sides agreed to cooperate more in 
combating terrorism in the region and tackling organized cross-border crime.

China thinks a stable Afghanistan could help curb the threat of violence in 
its far-western region of Xinjiang.

There has also been speculation that Karzai, who is trying to garner 
international support for his attempts to hold peace talks with the Taliban, 
also wants China to put pressure on Pakistan – Beijing’s key ally – to help 
Afghanistan in these efforts. However, experts doubt that China will do this.

"They are afraid of having problems with the US and the West," Niklas 
Swanstroem pointed out. "Moreover, once China engages in the security of other 
countries, it will create a sort of fear that it is intervening in the internal 
affairs of other states and China doesn’t want to do this."

President Karzai is due to meet Premier Wen Jiabao on Thursday. He is also 
scheduled to hold a speech at Beijing University later this week.

Author: Disha Uppal
Editor: Anne Thomas

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>