<ID>20141113-161
<DATE>20141113<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/opinion-china-is-shying-away-from-responsibility/a-18061038
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Opinion: China is shying away from responsibility
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Since the APEC Summit, all attention has been directed at the world's new superpower, China. But Beijing's dominance seems disproportionate when compared to what the country has to offer, says DW's Rodion Ebbighausen.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 For China, the recent APEC Summit was a big success. President Xi Jinping, 
the conference's host, was able to present his country to the world as a rising 
world power. Commentators and analysts now admire the ascent of the East Asian 
country. China has indeed joined the ranks of the great nations, but the 
surprising thing is that nobody seems to be asking an obvious question: What 
does this new power have to offer the world?

 For quite some time, China has been exploiting a number of countries under 
the guise of development cooperation. There has been a constant pattern to it. 
Firstly, Beijing engages with the elites of a country, irrespective of the 
legitimacy of their rule - their human rights record is of no concern to the 
Chinese leadership.
 

DW's Rodion Ebbighausen

In the next phase, hundreds of thousands of Chinese migrant workers pour into 
the recipient nation to help build its infrastructure, but without employing 
the local population. Then, the country's raw materials are transported to 
China. In the end, cheap Chinese products flood the country's market, partially 
ruining the local economy.

 Let's then turn to the Asian giant's domestic politics: There are strong 
restrictions on the freedom of press and expression in China. The great 
firewall is considered the most effective filter in the world, obstructing any 
diversity of opinion and pluralism.

 Criticism is only allowed as long as the system is not questioned or 
high-ranking officials are unaffected. For instance, the Chinese authorities 
tell the people on the mainland that the democracy movement in Hong Kong 
democracy is a rebellion triggered by anarchists.

 For decades, the central government in Beijing has been harassing the ethnic 
minorities in Tibet and Xinjiang. The authorities have dealt strictly with the 
social upheaval in the country's far west, partially triggered by the massive 
influx of Han Chinese to the region.

 When it comes to the South China Sea, Beijing has shown it doesn't place much 
value on international law. It bullies its smaller neighbors and expands its 
sphere of influence by implementing salami tactics. China also refuses to take 
part in a case filed by the Philippines in the Permanent Court of Arbitration.

 In the United Nations Security Council, China mostly stands out for a lack of 
constructive contributions as well as for almost always insisting on the 
principle on non-intervention. Exceptions such as the 2009 UN resolution 
against North Korea's nuclear program confirm the rule. In reality, China holds 
a protective hand over North Korea's terror regime.

 The pursuit of one's own advantage and the maximization of profits are core 
values of the government in Beijing. These are not generally reproachable aims, 
as other countries also strive for power and profits. But the difference is 
that in countries such as the United States or European Union Member States the 
pursuit of power and profits is often confronted by other forces.

 For instance, these countries allow the work of NGOs such as Human Rights 
Watch or Transparency International. They also have a civil society and an open 
debate about what is desirable and what is not. These are all elements which 
ultimately also have an impact on foreign policy.

 But China doesn't have any of this. The Chinese elites suppress dissent in 
order to maintain power. They fear transparency and are not accountable to the 
people, but only to the party. This view of politics is also reflected in the 
country's foreign policy, which is either indifferent or primarily guided by 
economic interests. This is why China is a big world power that shies away from 
its responsibilities. It doesn't offer the world much more than a giant 
marketplace.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>