<ID>20151007-151
<DATE>20151007<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/who-is-fighting-in-northern-afghanistan/a-18765739
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Who is fighting in northern Afghanistan?
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Reports have emerged that along with the Afghan Taliban, scores of Central Asian Islamists and Pakistani jihadists are fighting in northern Afghanistan. Are the militants becoming a multi-national movement?
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 It is true that the Taliban had to retreat from Kunduz, only days after 
taking over large parts of the Afghan city. But the Islamists have opened war 
fronts in other parts of northern Afghanistan, which have never been their 
strongholds. They have effectively taken the battle to the northeastern 
provinces of Takhar, Baghlan and Badakhshan, where the Taliban reportedly 
captured some areas, including one close to Fayzabad, where the German military 
once had a base.

 The Taliban's offensive and their military prowess seems to have caught 
everyone by surprise, particularly President Ashraf Ghani's administration in 
Kabul. The Afghan government needed US air power to expel the insurgents from 
Kunduz, which is not only Afghanistan's fifth-largest city but also has a 
geo-political significance given its proximity to Central Asia.

 The success of the Taliban in Kunduz - albeit ephemeral - raises questions 
about the Afghan troops' ability to prevent another provincial capital from 
falling under Taliban control.

 "Kunduz is actually a very small part of a bigger story. This story is an 
effort by the Taliban to carve out a large sphere of influence in a 
geo-strategically significant region," Michael Kugelman, a South Asia expert at 
the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, told DW.
  
The Taliban's military prowess in Kunduz caught everyone by surprise

 The expert says that the Taliban have also proven their ability to seize 
territory across a vast swath of the northern region. "In the long term, that 
is just as concerning as the Taliban's takeover of Kunduz, given that until 
relatively recently northern Afghanistan was not a Taliban stronghold," he said.

A multi-national force?

 Experts say that one of the reasons behind the Taliban's takeover of Kunduz 
is their acceptance of jihadists from non-Pashtun movements across the region. 
For the first time, the Taliban are emerging as a multi-ethnic and 
multi-national force by aligning with Uzbek, Uighur and even Pakistan's Punjabi 
Islamists.

 "The battle over Kunduz symbolizes a change in the overall political strategy 
and subsequently the recruitment patterns of the Taliban: from a mainly 
Pashtun-focused composition of its ranks towards a more multi-ethnic force in 
order to improve their chances of controlling northern areas of Afghanistan," 
Siegfried O. Wolf, Director of research at the Brussels-based South Asia 
Democratic Forum (SADF), and a researcher at the University of Heidelberg's 
South Asia Institute, told DW.

 "It seems that besides Arabs, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis (including Rohingya 
refugees from Myanmar recruited in Bangladesh), militants from Central Asia and 
China's Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region are joining the Taliban in northern 
Afghanistan," the expert added.

DW recommends

Taliban take fight beyond Kunduz

As government forces make progress in Kunduz, there are indications the fight 
over the city was only part of a bigger Taliban strategy designed to increase 
their clout in key areas of northern Afghanistan. DW examines. (06.10.2015)
  
Amnesty condemns Taliban's 'reign of terror' in Kunduz

Mass murder, gang rapes and house-to-house searches by death squads: Based on 
civilian testimonies, Amnesty International has catalogued a number of 
atrocities attributed to the Taliban in the embattled city of Kunduz. 
(02.10.2015)
 

Dashed hopes - A year into Afghanistan's unity government

When Afghan politicians reached a deal to form a unity government last 
September, many hoped for a future free of insecurity, unemployment and 
corruption. But a year into the government, what has changed on the ground? 
(29.09.2015)
 

Ahmad Saidi, a former Afghan diplomat in Pakistan and a security expert, 
confirmed the participation of ethnically diverse Islamists in the Taliban's 
latest offensive.

 "There are fighters from Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Chechnya, Kirgizstan, 
Azerbaijan and some from Arab countries in Kunduz and other northern Afghan 
provinces," Saidi told DW, adding that among them the Pakistani and Uzbek 
fighters had been the most active.

What's Pakistan's role in it?

 According to media reports, some Taliban commanders fighting in northern 
Afghanistan were once incarcerated in Pakistan. And some of them played 
important roles in the Taliban regime ousted in 2001 following a US-led 
invasion. Mullah Abdul Salam Akhund, for instance, was one of nine former 
Afghan Taliban cabinet ministers arrested by Pakistani authorities in 2010 as 
part of a US-driven crackdown on extremists.

 Akhund, the Taliban's shadow governor for Kunduz, was released in 2013 by 
Pakistan, along with several other of the group's leaders, to facilitate peace 
talks with Washington and Kabul. That same year, Islamabad also released the 
Taliban's former foreign minister, Mullah Mohammed Hassan. Analysts say it 
can't be a coincidence that the two commanders freed by Pakistan were in charge 
of the Taliban's Kunduz mission.

 "It is not clear on what terms they (Akhund and Hassan) were released and 
sent to Afghanistan," Arif Jamal, a US-based journalist and author of several 
books on Islamic terrorism and Pakistan, told DW. "However, we know that 
Pakistan is supporting the Islamist takeover of parts of Afghanistan and, 
eventually, the capital Kabul."

 Jamal says there is enough evidence that the supply lines for the Taliban and 
other extremist groups in northern Afghanistan pass through Pakistan. "The 
Pakistani military is supporting different groups of the Taliban, Jamatud Dawa 
and 'Islamic State' in Afghanistan. The goal is to send Ghani's government 
packing once the US forces completely withdraw."
  
Can Afghan troops prevent another provincial capital from falling into Taliban 
hands?

 Islamabad denies allegations that it backs factions of the Taliban and other 
jihadist groups in Afghanistan, and says it wants a stable government in Kabul.

 Analyst Wolf, however, does not agree with Pakistan's official stance: "This 
has been a recurring part of an officially orchestrated 'cat-and-mouse game' by 
Pakistani authorities to provoke the Afghan government and to lead astray the 
anti-terror engagement of the international community.

 The Pakistani Taliban have been heading in remarkable numbers to northern 
Afghanistan, which has become a new sanctuary and area of operation for an 
array of militant groups."

 But there is also a flipside, says Wolf. "The Taliban are taking a moderate 
approach towards non-Pashtuns and former combatants in northern Afghanistan to 
reduce the intensity of the conflict between different ethnic groups. But this 
could be a worrying development for Pakistani policymakers as many of the new 
groups in the north are known for their deeply entrenched anti-Pakistan 
sentiments."

 Islamabad is rather interested in supporting the pro-Pakistan factions among 
the Afghan Taliban in order to establish a friendly Pashtun government in its 
neighborhood, said Wolf. "All this could lead to an escalation of the armed 
conflict in northern Afghanistan, making the region unmanageable for 
Afghanistan's National Security Forces," he added.

Is there a diplomatic solution?

 Former Afghan diplomat Ahmad Saidi hopes the situation can be brought under 
control as long as President Ghani's administration works with neighboring 
countries and persuades them to stop the flow of jihadists to northern 
Afghanistan.
  
Is the rift between President Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah affecting 
Kabul's anti-terror strategy?

 "The government should work together with the countries in the region to 
fight the insurgency. In order to do this, Afghan politicians need to ignore 
their disputes and take a stronger stance against the Taliban when they engage 
in talks with other countries," said Saidi, referring to political disputes 
among President Ghani and his chief executive Abdullah Abdullah, who is also 
from northern Afghanistan.

 But resolving the Afghan government's internal crisis is probably easier said 
than done. The Taliban's latest offensive in the north has dealt a major blow 
to the one-year-old unity government of President Ashraf Ghani, as it is yet 
again civilians who have borne the brunt of the escalating violence.

 "The crisis of confidence in the government was already there, but the fall 
of Kunduz has exacerbated this, and also brought international attention to the 
weakness of the Afghan government," Omar Hamid, Head of Asia Pacific Country 
Risk at global analytics firm IHS, told DW.

 Also, Afghanistan's neighboring countries are not willing to help, at least 
not now.

Additional reporting by Gabriel Dom√≠nguez and Masood Saifullah.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>