<ID>20090826-36
<DATE>20090826<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Hu-Jintao-on-tour-of-inspection-of-Xinjiang-16149.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Hu Jintao on tour of inspection of Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Hu maintains China has quashed separatism, extremism and terrorism. But he asks the party, military and local authorities to work to improve the economic development of the population. Beijing denies the upcoming trial of 200 Uyghur as well as torture and the death of hundreds of prisoners. 
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews) - For the first time since violent clashes at the beginning 
of July, President Hu Jintao has visited Xinjiang, proclaiming victory over the 
three forces that endanger China: separatism, extremism and terrorism. In his 
tour of inspection, August 22 to 25, Hu visited villages, farms, industries, 
communities and barracks, having meetings with army personnel, local government 
and religious representatives. On 5 July, a peaceful demonstration by Uyghurs, 
blocked by police, turned into open clashes between Muslim ethnic Uyghurs, the 
local population in Xinjiang, and the Han Chinese, who are currently colonizing 
the economics and politics of the region. At least 200 people died and over 2 
thousand were injured. The Uighur groups abroad, claim more than 10 thousand 
Uyghurs disappeared, probably killed or arrested. Hu Jintao, to address the 
crisis, was forced to abandon G8 meetings in Italy and rush home. During his 
tour, Hu Jintao visited the widow, Zhao Li, wife of a policeman killed in the 
clashes. At the same time he promised local farmers more efficient economic 
measures to support ethnic minorities. In Xinjiang, their homeland, the Uyghurs 
are marginalized from economic and political life, suffering violations of 
their religious freedom. In a meeting with party leaders, army and police, Hu 
stressed that the key to stability in the region and "the most urgent task” is 
to increase economic development and living standards of the population. Only 
then - he said - can we build a "prosperous, harmonious socialist" Xinjiang. 
This emphasis on local problems contrasts with the interpretation that Beijing 
has expounded since the riots, blamed on foreign groups and powers, on Muslim 
separatists and terrorists. In recent days it was reported that, at the very 
end of Hu’s visit, in Xinjiang the trial of 200 Uyghur charged with violence 
during the July riots, took place. But local authorities have denied this. 
Another news report spoke of  about 200 Uyghur "tortured and killed" in Chinese 
prisons in recent weeks. The spokesman of the government of Xinjiang, Hou 
Hanmin, again denied this, noting that the official number of those arrested is 
83. The situation in Xinjiang remains tense: phones and internet services are 
blocked, as well as various local sites and global networks such as Facebook 
and Twitter. According to official figures, at least 200 thousand tourists have 
cancelled their holidays to Xinjiang after the riots.   
<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>