<ID>20080806-193
<DATE>20080806<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/experts-split-on-threat-of-terrorism-at-beijing-olympics/a-3541794
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Experts Split on Threat of Terrorism at Beijing Olympics
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A deadly mortar attack in northwestern China has stirred up fear of attacks during the Olympic Games in Beijing. However, whether the Games are really in danger is a highly disputed matter.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

According to Chinese authorities, the attack in the Muslim region of Xinjiang, 
which killed 16 police officers on Monday, Aug. 4, was carried out by 
terrorists. This is the second attack of this kind in Xinjiang in the past two 
weeks. Now the question is: How concerned should the world be of an attack 
during the Olympics.

Terrorism is the biggest threat during the Games, Rohan Gunaratna, one of 
Singapore's most prominent terrorism experts, told the Chinese dailyStraits 
Times. 

Head of the the International Center for Political Violence and Terrorism 
Research at the Nanyang Technological University, Gunaratna said the Olympic 
Security Committee categorizes al Qaeda, the East Turkestan Islamic Movement 
(ETIM), Tibetan separatists and the Falun Gong sects as threats.

Gunaratna said he believes the ETIM poses the biggest threat. That group was 
blamed for Monday's attack by theChina Daily newspaper. 

The Beijing fortress

The attack took place in the most western reaches of the country

Other political observers warned against lapsing into panic or dramatizing the 
danger to the Games in Beijing.

The Chinese capital can be compared to a fortress, and that the danger of an 
attack is therefore remote, according to East Asian expert Xuewu Gu. Xuewu 
added that the most dangerous groups are not in a position to stage an attack 
in Beijing because they are being forced to deal with the police outside the 
capital.

State in a state

Martin Wagener, an expert on violence in East Asia at Trier University, called 
Beijing a "true security state."

Around 110,000 police officers and 34,000 soldiers have been enlisted to work 
security

The government has put 34,000 soldiers of the People's Liberation Army along 
with 110,000 police officers in place for security, Wagener said his research 
has shown. They will be backed up by fighter jets, helicopters and ships. There 
have also been some 300,000 security cameras installed, and up to 1.4 million 
people have reportedly volunteered to make sure nothing goes wrong.

"It will be very difficult to smuggle any sort of explosives into Beijing," 
said Wagener.

The attack in Kashgar is not an uncommon occurrence. For years there have been 
both small and large attacks against the police and government buildings. Until 
now, however, they have not been reported on outside the country.

Xuewu said he expects the attacks to continue after the Olympics, because the 
groups' causes will not fade away as international media leave China after the 
Games.

"Just the opposite," he said. "There will still be problems because the 
injustice in China will just get bigger, and the relationship between the 
central government and the minorities will get worse."

Selective disinformation

Wagener said he believes it is possible that the central government in Beijing 
has instrumented accidents, like the one in Kashgar, in order to justify their 
giant security apparatus.

When the Games are over they are likely to use it for other purposes, such as 
controlling separatist in Xinjiang, Tibet protesters, and the religious Falun 
Gong sects, Wagener said.

"This seems to be the central concern for the authorities," he added. 

Local police tried to keep the story from getting out

The Chinese government seems to be carrying out a campaign of selective 
disinformation of the public. At least thatâ€™s what actions in Kashgar are 
pointing to. According to one reporter from AFP, independent reports of the 
attack were difficult to come by. The local authorities blocked Internet access 
on the day of the attack. The police tried to prohibit any news of the attack 
getting out, and even broke into the hotel room of an AFP photographer and 
forced him to delete photos of the attack site.

Two Japanese journalists, who wanted to report on the attack, were momentarily 
detained according to the Associated Press. Reporter Shinji Katsuta said that 
he was hit multiple times in the face. Authorities apologized later for the 
incident.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>