<ID>20090521-300
<DATE>20090521<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/obama-seeks-support-for-guantanamo-closure-after-senate-rebuke/a-4268860
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Obama seeks support for Guantanamo closure after Senate rebuke
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
US President Barack Obama is to deliver a speech on national security after his own Democrats joined with Senate Republicans and voted overwhelmingly to block the closing of the controversial Guantanamo Bay prison.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

President Obama will seek to regain control of the Guantanamo Bay discussion 
Thursday with a major address on national security, just a day after a rare 
bipartisan defeat for the popular president.

The Senate voted 90-6 to strip the $80 million (58 million euros) Obama 
requested for the closing of the Guantanamo Bay prison from spending 
legislation for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

This sharp rebuke puts Obama in a political tight spot at home and abroad and 
could get in the way of the fulfilment of his promise to close the prison in 
the first year of his presidency. Obama signed the executive order calling for 
the closure on January 22, just days after taking office, proving that he was 
serious about reversing some of the controversial policies of his predecessor 
George W. Bush. But now Obama has just months to decide what to do with the 240 
remaining inmates, many of whom have not been charged.

"We've made some hasty decisions that are now going to take some time to 
unwind," said presidential spokesman Robert Gibbs. "And closing Guantanamo Bay, 
obviously, is one of those decisions."

Criticism from all sides

While Obama's move to close the prison was welcomed internationally, many 
Americans are skittish about having these suspected terrorists in their own 
states. Fearing a backlash from these voters, members of the Senate and House 
of Representatives from both parties have resisted bringing the detainees into 
the US.

"Democrats under no circumstances will move forward without a comprehensive, 
responsible plan from the president," said Senate majority leader Harry Reid. 
"We will never allow terrorists to be released into the United States."

Many of the inmates have yet to be charged

FBI director Robert Mueller also has concerns about bringing the detainees 
into the American prison system.

"The concerns we have about individuals who may support terrorism being in the 
United States run from concerns about providing financing to terrorists, 
radicalizing others with regard to violent extremism, the potential for 
individuals undertaking attacks in the United States," Mueller said.

Mueller said he hoped Obama's speech would "outline a comprehensive strategy 
for keeping America safe."

Obama has also come under fire for reversing his position on other related 
issues. Many Obama supporters and civil liberties groups were angered when he 
announced plans to re-institute Bush-era military tribunals for terror suspects 
and to block the release of photos of prisoner abuse in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Little support from Europe

Obama's failure to persuade his fellow Americans to accept Guantanamo inmates 
into their country could further undermine his administration's efforts to get 
allies in Europe to take in some of the detainees themselves.

Since Obama took office, one man has been transferred to Britain and another 
to France, but other European nations have either refused entirely or given 
conflicting responses.

Steinmeier isn't sure former Guantanamo Bay inmates belong in Europe

While Germany's Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has said Germany would 
consider taking in former inmates, Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier has 
repeatedly spoken out against the idea.

The US has pushed Germany to take in a group of inmates of China's Uigher 
minority, a mainly Muslim group that Beijing considers terrorists. Munich, in 
the southern German state Bavaria, is home to around 500 Uighurs, the largest 
known community in exile.

Steinmeier, who is running as the Social Democrats' candidate for chancellor 
this year, told the news magazine Der Spiegel this week that accepting any 
large number of Uighers would create political tensions with the Chinese 
government.

hf/AFP/AP/dpa
Editor: Nick Amies

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>