<ID>20101112-81
<DATE>20101112<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/turkey-china-improve-ties-despite-uighur-problem/a-6223058
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Turkey & China improve ties despite Uighur problem
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The Turkish government criticised Chinese policy harshly after ethnic clashes in Xinjiang last year. But recently Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu visited China, and the tone changed.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

The visit the Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu made at the end of 
October to China was very special. Later after praying in the Great Mosque of 
Kashgar, Davutoglu described it as moving to the members of the Turkish 
delegation. It was a grand gesture by the Chinese government to allow a Turkish 
official to visit Kashgar for the first time ever - a city deep inside the 
Central Asian desert, where over centuries several Turkish states existed.　

In his speech in Urumchi, the capital of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region, 
Davutoglu described Xinjiang, a region to which Turkey has deep relations as 
special. These were clear words for those, who know that the Turks and Uigurs 
have common ancestors.

Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu

"One China" policy without exceptions

There was no reason for Chinese officials to protest because two days later in 
Beijing the same minister reassured his counterpart Yang Jiechi that Turkey 
still supported the "one China" policy and respected the territorial integrity 
of China without exceptions.

This seems to be a backddown on Ankara's part since Turkish Prime Minister 
Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused China of genocide only last year, after the death 
of several hundred demonstrators during clashes with the police in Xinjiang.

Turkish expert Selcuk Colakoglu believes however it was not a question of 
Turkey backing down because but Ankara has always respected China's right to 
fight separatism:　

"In recent contacts we have observed a special reference to the situation of 
Uigur Turks. We observe that the idea to broaden the rights of the Uigurs in 
the region, to integrate them into the political and economic system is being 
spelled out at the highest level. And it is being emphasised that this would 
enhance Turkish-Chinese relations."

Chinese officials said that a total of 197 people died in the riots in 
Xinjiang in July 2009

A different understanding of "terrorism"

Turkish strategists believe that China could build a very strong bridge to 
Turkey, if Beijing solved the problems of the Uigurs and supported them inn 
their efforts to retain their own culture, and that China is interested in such 
a strong bridge to the most western part of Asia.

Turkey learnt an important lesson in the aftermath of the quarrel with China 
about human rights, Colakoglu believes: "Turkey was isolated in this issue. I 
mean, starting with the Western countries and the countries, who claim to be 
sensitive on human rights, there has been very little international reaction."

Since China doesn't have a democratic system, Turkey has been having 
difficulty in explaining to Beijing that protests like those against Chinese 
policy in Xinjiang are seen as normal events in a democracy like Turkey, says 
Colakoglu. But recently the Chinese seem to have developmed more understanding 
of Ankara's position, he adds, especially on terrorism, even though there is a 
difference in the terminology. Speaking of terrorism, Turkey means Al Qaida, 
but China means Uigur separatists.

Warming up relations

But the days the Uigurs were the only dimension of Turkish-Chinese relations 
are long gone, says Suat Kiniklioglu, a member of Foreign Relations Committee 
of the Turkish parliament:　

Kashgar is located in the westernmost part of China

"We as a country, who as I said, engages now more with East, South and West, 
have a growing interest in how the Far East fares, as we feel that both China 
and India and over all the Far East is more dynamic, has more growth and that 
the gravity of global attention is shifting more to the East. We feel that 
these are areas that we can't neglect."

Turkish experts stress that in the past two years both countries had similar 
positions on the Middle East, North Korea and Iran and thus they worked closely 
in the UN Security Council. Working relations are warm and the two countries 
have similar views on the global economy. So experts agree that there is likely 
to be more progress in Turkish-Chinese strategic ties.

Author: Cem Sey
Editor: Grahame Lucas

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>