<ID>20100430-294
<DATE>20100430<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/a-win-win-situation-for-australia/a-5524679
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
'A win-win situation for Australia'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
China and Australia are highly interdependent economically, but human rights issues have led to tension on several occasions.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Australia is a country rich in raw materials - coal, iron ore and natural gas, 
to name a few. And China, with its rapid growth, has a voracious appetite for 
these natural resources. In this respect, the countries are a good match. China 
is Australia's second largest buyer of exports, right after Japan, with 14.6 
percent of Australian exports going to China.

Many Australians believe it is China's consumption that saved Australia from 
the global economic crisis and Radio Australia's Linda Mottram is one of them. 
"There is no question that purely on the numbers, Australia has been lifted up 
by China. Were it not for China's very quick recovery and its resumption of 
very vigorous purchases of Australian commodities, then Australia's economy 
would be in a far worse situation than it is at the moment."

The Land Down Under relies heavily on the export of its raw materials

The economic situation is a positive side for Australia. But it is not the 
only factor that shapes Sino-Australian relations. Mottram says there are other 
fundamental issues, such as human rights, on which the two sides have 
difficulty agreeing. Overall, she believes, Australians hold a "kind of 
contradictory view of China â€“ it is very difficult to reconcile because on the 
one hand there is a great strength in the economic relationship, and there is 
the view that Australia is benefitting from that, but on the other hand, there 
are those very complex and fundamental issues of core values."

Core values

The issue of core values was questioned again in March, when coverage of the 
Rio Tinto trial dominated Australian media. Stern Hu, an Australian national 
and executive of the Australian Rio Tinto mining giant, had been charged and 
was later convicted in a Chinese court on charges of corruption and industrial 
espionage.

Australia and China closed a uranium deal in 2006

Throughout the case, China was criticized largely by the Australian public and 
also by Australian Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, for its handling of the case, 
especially for holding trials in secret and not allowing the presence of the 
media or Australian officials. "It was seen as a classic example of China's 
lack of transparency, a weak legal system and perhaps political manipulation," 
says Mottram.

A further area of concern for Australia is China's military spending. 
Professor Carl Thayer from the University of New South Wales says China is 
sometimes a cause for concern for Australia because of its geographical 
proximity: "There are always reservations on the defense side and it echoes US 
concerns about greater transparency in rising Chinese budgets: why is china 
spending so much on defense? Australia cannot be happy when China acquires 
military capabilities that can take out American satellites, that can destroy 
aircraft carriers and prevent the United States e.g. from coming to Taiwan's 
aid in a crisis."

Smoke and mirrors

The Rio Tinto case caused an uproar in Australian media. The main defendant, 
Stern Hu, received 10 years in prison

Thayer says there are a variety of separate issues which aggravate relations 
between the two countries on a minor level, for example the showing of a Uighur 
film at an Australian film festival last year and official visits to Australia 
by the Dalai Lama. But Thayer sees no need to worry. "We call that smoke and 
mirrors. China goes through stamping on the stage, expressing its anger and 
then it blows over."

Thayer believes these other issues do not overshadow the prominent factor in 
relations between the two countries. "The larger view is that it's a win-win 
for Australia: we get locked in economic deals with China, China is investing 
in this country, there is tourism in both directions. Australia sees itself as 
part of Asia and sees China generally as a positive force there. And would want 
to encourage China to become a responsible stakeholder, rather than antagonize 
or take on China."

Author: Sarah Berning
Editor: Grahame Lucas

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>