<ID>20150312-225
<DATE>20150312<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/acquittals-in-china-fall-top-court-says/a-18309170
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Acquittals in China fall, top court says
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Figures released by China's Supreme People's Court show a drop in the number of defendants found innocent in 2014 compared to the year before. A judge has called for lessons to be learned from miscarriages of justice.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 China's courts had a conviction rate of 99.93 percent in 2014, with just 778 
criminal defendants being declared innocent from more than a million accused, a 
report released by the Supreme People's Court showed on Thursday.

 In his report to the annual session of the National People's Congress, chief 
justice Zhou Qiang said 1,317 cases had been revised, with "a number" of 
wrongful sentences corrected.

 One case saw a teenager from the Inner Mongolia region exonerated 18 years 
after he was executed for the murder and rape of a woman.

 "With regard to miscarriages of justice, we deeply reprove ourselves and 
demand that courts at all levels draw profound lessons and further strengthen 
the effective prevention of unjust and false cases," Zhou said, adding that 
courts must "leave no hiding places for judicial corruption."

 Zhou's report for 2013 showed 825 acquittals and 1.158 million convictions.

'Forced confessions'

 Rights groups have said that regular miscarriages in China's justice system 
come about because force is often used to extract confessions and the accused 
frequently do not receive an adequate defense.

 The People's Supreme Court has repeatedly promised legal reforms 

 to prevent judicial abuses amid mounting public anger over court errors. 
However, experts have argued that such reforms are made difficult by the fact 
that courts are politically controlled by the ruling Communist Party.

 The Party has pledged to ensure the "rule of law with Chinese 
characteristics."

'Terrorism' crackdown

 Thursday's report also noted a rise of 13.3 percent over 2013 in the number 
of people sentenced last year for crimes such as inciting secession and 
terrorist attacks.

 "(We will) actively participate in the fight against terrorism and separatism 
and firmly punish violent terrorist crimes according to the law," it said.
  
Tohti's supporters say he has been jailed for peaceful dissent

China is currently drafting its first-ever anti-terrorism law, which rights 
groups have warned may give the Communist Party even more powers to put 
peaceful dissent or criticism of government policies in the category of 
terrorist activities.

 Several high-profile cases of people jailed for "separatist" activities have 
drawn international attention in recent times, including that of prominent 
Uighur scholarIlham Tohti, 

 who was sentenced to life in prison in September amid widespread condemnation 
from rights groups around the world.

 tj/sms (AFP, Reuters)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>