<ID>20151222-13
<DATE>20151222<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/chinese-rights-lawyer-avoids-prison-time-with-three-year-suspended-sentence/a-18933516
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Chinese rights lawyer avoids prison time with three-year suspended sentence
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A Chinese court has given prominent human rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang a suspended three-year sentence for making comments critical of the Communist Party. The ruling will likely keep him out of prison for now.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 A Beijing court found Pu guilty of "inciting ethnic hatred" and "picking 
quarrels and provoking trouble" forcomments he made on social media 
 
over China's ethnic policies and criticism of officials.

 Pu has been a vocal supporter of free speech 
 
and represented dissident artist Ai Weiwei. He has also represented labor camp 
victims and criticized government policies over Tibet and the ethnic Uyghur.

 "Today's verdict also means, Pu Zhiqiang could not serve as a practicing 
lawyer. He can't provide legal services or assistance as a lawyer," Shang 
Baojun, one of Pu's lawyers, told DW.

 "However, the verdict was still a relief to us. At least, it means he can be 
released quite soon after spending almost 19 months in jail," explained Shang, 
who is worried about the working environment of Chinese lawers after Pu's case.

 His supporters were relieved that the suspended sentence likely means the 
human rights lawyer will not have to spend time in prison, but expressed 
outrage over the guilty verdict and a sentence that effectively silences him 
for the near future.

 Under the three-year sentence, Pu will be monitored by police and can only 
leave Beijing with permission.

 According to the Xinhua News Agency, Pu decided not to lodge an appeal 
against the court's decision.
  Watch video 01:59 
Share

Prominent Chinese human rights lawyer to be freed

Send 

Facebook 

Twitter 

Google+ 

Whatsapp  Tumblr 

linkedin 

stumble 

Digg 

reddit 

Newsvine 


Permalink http://dw.com/p/1HRcH

Prominent Chinese human rights lawyer to be freed

 "Clearly it is positive that Pu Zhiqiang is unlikely to spend another night 
in jail, yet that cannot hide the gross injustice against him," said William 
Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International. "He is no criminal and this 
guilty verdict effectively shackles one of China's bravest champions of human 
rights from practicing law."

 Pu was arrested in May 2014 as part of a wider nationwide crackdown on 
dissidents after attending a meeting to discusscommemorating the 25th 
anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre, a taboo topic in China. 
 

 The case against him related to seven social media posts between 2011 and 
2014 in what critics argue is a politically motivated attack on rights 
defenders.

 Pu's case has drawn the attention of rights groups and foreign governments, 
several of which said they were not allowed into the courtroom because 
officials said it was overcrowded.

 cw/jil (AFP, AP, dpa)

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>