<ID>20150121-158
<DATE>20150121<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/thousands-from-central-asia-joining-islamic-state-report/a-18203785
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Thousands from Central Asia joining 'Islamic State': Report
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
At least 2,000 Central Asians are believed to have joined "Islamic State," a new report found. Marked by poverty and radicalization, the region has become a growing source of foreign fighters, as Deirdre Tynan tells DW.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The fallout from the conflicts in Syria and Iraq has become a major security 
concern for Central Asian governments. Crippled by corruption, the five former 
Soviet Central Asian countries - Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, 
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan - are seen as having done little to address the 
issue of radical Islam.

 In a recently released report, the International Crisis Group (ICG) says that 
"Islamic State" (IS) is attracting Central Asians to Syria and fostering new 
links among radicals within the region. Between 2,000 and 4,000 of their 
citizens have left for IS-held territory to fight or otherwise support the 
Islamic State cause, the report notes.

 The briefing titled "Syria Calling: Radicalization in Central Asia" examines 
the socio-political context behind growing radicalism in the region and argues 
that a comprehensive solution requires not only better coordination of security 
services, but also a liberalization of religious laws and greater economic 
opportunities to and for young people, including women.

 In a DW interview, Deirdre Tynan, the ICG's Central Asia Project Director, 
says that it is easier for "IS" to gain recruits in Central Asia than in nearby 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, adding that the group's appeal in the region is 
rooted in an unfulfilled desire for political and social change and will 
eventually pose a serious threat to the region.

DW: Where do these "Islamic State" supporters come from?

 Deirdre Tynan: Official Central Asian governments' estimates of several 
hundred fighters are conservative. Western officials suggest the number is 
2,000, and it may be as many as 4,000.
 

Tynan: 'Recruitment to the extremist cause is happening in mosques and prayer 
rooms across the region'

The largest single group is reportedly Uzbek, both citizens of Uzbekistan and 
ethnic Uzbeks from the Ferghana Valley, including Osh, Kyrgyzstan's southern 
city. The number of the former in Syria is not the estimated 500 or so cited by 
Tashkent and may exceed 2,500.

 Perhaps 1,000 men and women, including 500 ethnic Kyrgyz and others from Osh, 
have left the Ferghana Valley to fight for or provide humanitarian assistance 
to IS.

How would you describe a typical "IS" supporter from this region?

 There is no single profile of an "IS" supporter. Central Asian governments 
often fail to recognise that "IS" appeals to a cross-section of citizens. There 
are seventeen-year-old hairdressers, established businessmen, women abandoned 
by their husbands, families who believe their children will have better 
prospects in a caliphate, young men, school dropouts and university students.

 All are inspired by the belief that an Islamic state is a meaningful 
alternative to post-Soviet life. It is easier for "IS" to gain recruits in 
Central Asia than in nearby Afghanistan and Pakistan.

What are their reasons for leaving their countries behind and supporting "IS?" 

 They are prompted in part by marginalization and bleak economic prospects. 
"IS" appeals not only to those who seek combat experience, but also to those 
who envision a more devout, purposeful, fundamentalist religious life.

 The radicalization of women is often a response to the lack of social, 
religious, economic and political opportunities afforded to them in Central 
Asia. Economic reward is not a motivation for those drawn to "IS"-controlled 
territory. For some, it is a personal adventure; for others it is a call to 
arms.

 "IS" sympathizers in Central Asia are motivated by an extremist religious 
ideology. The growth of radical tendencies is exacerbated by poor religious 
education and grievances against the region's secular governments. Even though 
socio-economic factors play a role, ideological commitment to jihad - the idea 
of holy struggle to advance Islam - is for many the main reason Central Asians 
are drawn to
 "IS."

DW recommends

Central Asia's intensifying water dispute

A new report finds political rivalries, economic competition and nationalism 
are hampering efforts to solve Central Asia's growing water and energy needs; a 
situation that may lead to conflict says analyst Deirdre Tynan. (12.09.2014)
  
Ethnic tensions escalating in Xinjiang

The latest incidents of deadly violence in China's northwestern region of 
Xinjiang indicate that Beijing's policies towards ethnic minorities have 
reached a dead end. (05.07.2013)
  
Xinjiang: Restrictions on religion may lead to 'Uighur radicalization'

A city in China's Xinjiang province has temporarily banned people with veils, 
head scarves and long beards from boarding buses. Experts say attempts at 
repressing their culture are fueling violence and extremism. (08.08.2014)
 

Are Pakistani militants moving closer to 'Islamic State'?

In a new video, a group of Pakistani and Afghan militants could be seen 
beheading a Pakistani soldier after pledging allegiance to "Islamic State" and 
its leader Baghdadi. Is IS gaining a foothold in the Islamic country? 
(12.01.2015)
 

How are these supporters being recruited?

 Recruitment to the extremist cause is happening in mosques and namazkhana 
(prayer rooms) across the region. The Internet and social media play a critical 
but not definitive role.

 Some are recruited at home; others are radicalized abroad, often as migrant 
workers. Recruitment happens mainly in Central Asia, Russia and Turkey, but 
also from among young men who travel to religious schools in Egypt, Saudi 
Arabia or Bangladesh.

 In Russia, migrants who are marginalized - often doing illegal and badly paid 
jobs - seek solace, a sense of identity and community in religion. They may 
fall in with Caucasian networks, Dagestani or Chechen, that blur the lines 
between religion and organized crime, while offering a degree of protection 
against other criminal groups and difficulties.

 Word of mouth is one of the most powerful tools of recruitment in Central 
Asia; one family member or friend leaves for "IS"-controlled territory, then 
several more follow. Social media maintains communication between those in 
Syria and those at home thinking about joining. Recruitment cells in Central 
Asia are small, secretive and sometimes extensions of prayer groups.

In which ways do these recruits support "IS?" 

 Some fight, others provide support services to more experienced fighters from 
the Caucasus or Arab states. "IS" says it wants teachers, nurses and engineers, 
not just fighters - this appeals to educated men and women.

What problems does this pose to Central Asian governments and the region as a 
whole?

 The number of Central Asians receiving combat training and progressing 
through "IS" command structures is increasing, as are the jihadi networks of 
which they are a part. Although most Central Asians find themselves in jamaats 
(factions) organized loosely along ethnic and linguistic lines, these form 
larger regional battalions of cooperating fighters from across the former 
Soviet Union, Afghanistan, Pakistan and China's Xinjiang region.

 The risk is rising that these connections will gather pace and purpose in 
Central Asia, and governments are ill-prepared to respond to a security threat 
of this type.

What are Central Asian governments doing about this?

 Tajikistan and Kazakhstan have introduced laws criminalizing fighting abroad, 
the former coming into effect in July 2014, the latter on January 2015. 
Uzbekistan banned terrorism training without reference to location in January 
2014, but the law was widely interpreted as directed against foreign-trained 
fighters.
 

'The number of Central Asians receiving combat training and progressing 
through 'IS' command structures is increasing,' says Tynan

 The Kyrgyz parliament approved criminal code amendments suggesting sentences 
of 8 to 15 years for taking part in conflicts, military operations or 
terrorist- or extremist training in a foreign state in September 2014, but 
these have yet to be signed into law.

 Rehabilitation programs could have potential, but Central Asian governments 
lack the resources and apparently the political will to implement them. The 
governments, though, aware of the dangers fighters could pose upon return from 
Syria, have done little to address the reasons why such a diverse cross-section 
of their citizens seek to participate in IS.

 Prevention of extremism and rehabilitation of jihadis are not yet high on the 
agenda, and female radicalization is largely ignored by religious leaders, 
while the lack of economic and political opportunities for young people 
compounds radicalism. Poorly educated imams struggle to compete with the 
Islamic State's glamorization of jihad.

Deirdre Tynan is Central Asia Project Director at the International Crisis 
Group.

 The interview was conducted by Gabriel Dom√≠nguez.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>