<ID>20160826-92
<DATE>20160826<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/traitors-and-villains-has-islamabad-learnt-anything-from-bugtis-killing/a-19505075
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
'Traitors' and 'villains' - Has Islamabad learnt anything from Bugti's killing?
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Ten years since the killing of Baloch separatist Akbar Bugti, Islamabad continues its confrontational approach with the leaders of ethnic groups, calling them "traitors." Experts say it doesn't bode well for the country.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 "Don't push us. It is not the 1970s when you can hit and run and hide in the 
mountains. This time you won't even know what hit you." Former Pakistani 
president and military chief Pervez Musharraf made these remarks in 2006 as a 
warning to Baloch separatists and their leader Nawab Akbar Bugti. Soon after, 
the general came down hard on the separatists and Bugti was killed in a 
military operation. Baloch nationalists claim that Bugti - who had been hiding 
in a mountain - was hit by a military rocket, an accusation Musharraf and the 
country's army denies.

 Ten years after Bugti's assassination, the Pakistani army continues to target 
rebels in the western Balochistan province. Musharraf's wish that the Baloch 
separatist movement would die with Bugti's killing hasn't come true yet. On the 
contrary, the Balochistan conflict has received more international attention in 
the past few years.

 As Baloch separatists commemorate Bugti's tenth death anniversary on Friday, 
August 26, Islamabad accuses the rebels of receiving support from India. 
Recently, Indian Premier Narendra Modi referred to Pakistani oppression in the 
Balochistan province.

Akbar Bugti remained close to Islamabd until the military operation in 2005

Decades-long insurgency

 Balochistan, which borders Iran and Afghanistan, remains Pakistan's poorest 
and least populous province despite a number of development projects Islamabad 
has initiated there in the past. Rebel groups have waged a separatist 
insurgency in the province for decades, complaining that the central government 
in Islamabad and the richer Punjab province unfairly exploit their resources. 
Islamabad reacted to the insurgency by launching a military operation in the 
province in 2005.

 The armed struggle for Baloch independence intensified after Bugti's killing 
in 2006. Rebel Baloch groups like the Balochistan Liberation Army have 
repeatedly attacked security forces and state installations. Most of the rebel 
leadership is thought to be abroad in the UK, Afghanistan and Dubai.

 Local rights groups have the details of thousands of people who they say have 
disappeared over the past ten years and have not been seen since. Pakistani 
security agencies claim these people were arrested on terrorism charges. 
However, the whereabouts of these people are kept secret from the public; they 
have not been presented to local courts for a proper trial.

Exploitation of economic resources?

 Last year, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth $46 billion 
(about 41 billion euro). With the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), 
Beijing aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South 
Asia in order to counter US and Indian influence. The CPEC would link 
Pakistan's southern Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang 
region. It also includes plans to create road, rail and oil pipeline links to 
improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.

DW recommends

Why Pakistan's army is targeting the MQM party

Expert Arif Jamal talks to DW about a paramilitary operation against the MQM, 
a liberal political party in southern Pakistan, and how the army is allowing an 
Islamist takeover of Pakistan's economic hub, Karachi. (23.08.2016)
 
 
Pakistan's Balochistan violence as deplorable as Kashmir killings?

Pakistan's Baloch activists accuse Islamabad of committing rights abuses in 
their province. In recently held rallies in Germany, they complained that while 
Kashmir continues to dominate news, their plight is ignored. (01.08.2016)
 

Gwadar â€“ Pakistan's impoverished colony or an economic hub?

Despite much-vaunted Chinese-Pakistani development projects in Pakistan's 
Gwadar city, the locals still have no access to clean water. And separatists 
have vowed to resist what they say is Sino-Pakistani colonization. (14.04.2016)
 

Pakistan is grappling with an acute economic crisis. Experts say the CPEC can 
certainly stir the much-needed economic activity in the country.

 But the much-vaunted CPEC has not impressed residents of Gwadar and 
Balochistan who believe they should be the main stakeholders of development 
projects in their port city.

 "Just look at the condition of our roads, our homes and towns; we still lack 
basic necessities of life," Farhad Baloch, a Gwadar resident, told DW. "Even 
drinking water is a rare commodity in the area. We are facing a drought-like 
situation," he added.

 K. B. Firaq, president of the Gwadar Educational Welfare Society, complains 
that the locals are being driven out of the city's port area to make way for 
Chinese workers and engineers. "The Gwadar fishermen are not allowed near the 
port boundaries. Thousands of fishermen have been asked to leave the harbor," 
Firaq claimed.

 Senator Mushahid Ullah Khan, leader of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League 
party, admits that the people of Balochistan are unhappy with some of the 
government's policies, but he denies that Islamabad is usurping the province's 
economic resources.

 "Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's government allowed a Baloch nationalist to 
become the chief minister of the province. Our administration has also launched 
a number of development projects for the benefit of the locals," Senator Khan 
told DW.

 But nationalist leader Abdul Hai Baloch is skeptical about the government's 
claims, as he says the issue is more political than economic. He believes the 
Gwadar residents resent the CPEC project because they fear that with the 
arrival of workers from China and Pakistan's other provinces, they will soon 
become a minority in their own town.

 Dr. Abdul Aziz, a Gwadar resident, echoes Hai Baloch's sentiments. "Our 
resources are being plundered, and we are being deprived of our livelihood. 
Many people had to move to remote areas after the government started the 
construction work on Gwadar port," he said, adding that non-locals were already 
buying land in the city. "More dislocations are on the horizon."

 "We should be the masters of our resources, but we are being treated like 
slaves. This will have catastrophic consequences," he continued.
 

Rights groups accuse the military of committing grave human rights abuses in 
Balochistan

 Last year, in an interview with DW, Brahamdagh Bugti, leader of the Baloch 
Republican Party living in exile in Switzerland, and grandson of slain 
nationalist leader Nawab Akbar Bugti, criticized Islamabad's development 
policies for Balochistan.

 "None of the previous development projects in Balochistan have ever been 
beneficial to the province or its people," Bugti told DW. "We have been 
complaining for decades that Islamabad has never sought the consent of the 
Baloch people before initiating these projects. It is quite obvious that they 
are not launched to boost the province's economy or to help people out of 
poverty. They are started for the benefit of the rulers in Islamabad," he added.

New 'traitors'

 Ten years ago, Islamabad declared Akbar Bugti a "terrorist" and a "traitor." 
Experts say that a majority of Baloch leaders are still not trusted by the army 
and the politicians in Islamabad. In fact, the central government and the 
military are bent on pushing more nationalist leaders against the wall, 
analysts say.

 Recently, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), a southern Sindh province-based 
political party, came under direct conflict with the Pakistani authorities when 
its exiled leader Altaf Hussain criticized the army and government officials of 
systematically targeting his workers.
 

The authorities accuse MQM and its leader Hussain of racketeering, abductions, 
torture and murder

 Hussain, who has been living in self-imposed exile since the early 1990s, 
also called Pakistan "the epicenter of terrorism." The politician warned the 
authorities that his followers would choose not to be loyal to the country if 
the "extrajudicial killings" of his activists continued.

 Like Baloch leader Akbar Bugti, Hussain has so far chosen to remain close to 
Islamabad, but the government's actions against him are forcing him to turn 
against the state.

 Some analysts say that instead of resolving the conflicts and paying 
attention to the grievances of the country's smaller provinces and ethnic 
groups, Islamabad continues to use force against them, which shows that the 
military and the civilian establishment haven't learnt much from their past 
mistakes. It is the same "you won't even know what hit you" paradigm all over 
again.

Additional reporting by Sattar Khan, DW's Islamabad correspondent.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>