<ID>20090429-54
<DATE>20090429<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-launches-massive-security-campaign,-restricts-business-visas-15110.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Beijing launches massive "security campaign," restricts business visas
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The real aim seems to be that of repressing all dissent and social protests. Experts: as a major economic power, China cannot continue to isolate itself from the world.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) - China is introducing tougher security measures 
and restricting entry permits, in view of the 60th anniversary of the founding 
of the communist state, which falls on October 1. But experts observe that the 
government seems more concerned about blocking protests for other 
anniversaries, like the 20th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre next 
June 4.

Zhang Xinfeng, deputy minister of public safety, explained yesterday that a 
strict "security campaign" will begin in May, intended to guarantee "a steady 
and harmonious social environment" for the celebrations on October 1, which are 
also scheduled to include a grandiose military parade in downtown Beijing, 
attended by all the authorities.

 Police will be conducting more strict controls on every kind of criminal 
activity, with the declared purpose of "maintaining public order." This 
definition often includes the repression of any form of dissent against the 
authorities, and of public protest for human and civil rights.

 Meanwhile, travel agents complain that for two weeks, draconian limits have 
been reintroduced on entry permits for foreigners, similar to the ones adopted 
before and during the Olympics in 2008. According to sources for the newspaper
South China Morning Post, it appears that all of the new business permits will 
expire by next September 15, while there are no new restrictions on visas for 
tourists or students. It appears that at least one important international 
conference scheduled for May in Beijing has already been postponed because of 
difficulties related to entry visas.

 In recent months, more than 3,000 local police chiefs and 2,000 communist 
officials have been attending classes in Beijing on blocking protests, 
negotiating with demonstrators, improving the Party's image, and maintaining 
order. The government is putting great emphasis on these courses, which will 
are being taught by leaders including Zhou Yongkang, a Politburo Standing 
Committee member and the highest authority on matters of law and public order, 
and Meng Jianzhu, the national police chief.

Analysts observe that the security campaign also includes strict control of 
Tibet and Xinjiang, where the local populations contest the domination and 
restrictions imposed by Beijing, even on religious matters. It is also intended 
to prevent the growing social protests for economic reasons, partly a result of 
the financial crisis and the frequent injustices committed by companies against 
their workers, who are often defrauded of their wages.

Experts comment that these kinds of restrictions are not in keeping with 
China's role as an economic power, and that a great country does not need to 
use pervasive control to make the people proud of the state. They observe that 
the true objective seems instead to be repressing and controlling any kind of 
dissent and those who fight for rights, as was done for the Beijing Olympics. 
Some are saying that the campaign has been underway for some time, and is code 
named "Project 6521," because it is intended to prevent protests for the many 
anniversaries in 2009: 60 years since the founding of the state, 50 years since 
the revolt in Tibet, 20 since Tiananmen, and 10 since the banning of the 
movement Falun Gong.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>