<ID>20130626-34
<DATE>20130626<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-police-open-fire-on-crowd:-27-victims-28302.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang, police open fire on crowd: 27 victims
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
In the remote western province, hotbed of ethnic clashes between Han and Uyghurs, tension continues unabated. A group of people assault police station and officers, who open fire at point blank range to repel them.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

 Urumqi (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Overnight clashes between Uyghurs and Han 
Chinese in the western province of Xinjiang have resulted in 27 victims, almost 
all protesters killed by police who opened fire on them. The violence took 
place in the desert area near Turpan, about 280 km from the provincial capital 
Urumqi. According to the official news agency Xinhua, the officers opened fire 
on "a mob of rioters."

Before the police opened fire 17 people had already died (9 police officers 
and 8 civilians). The crowd had stormed a police station and a government 
building. A  local official speaking anonymously, said officers "opened fire on 
the crowd" to protect the buildings killing 10 civilians. Several dozen were 
injured on both sides, who have since been admitted to the local hospital.

The spark that ignited the clashes is unclear. The province has long been the 
epicenter of violence and tensions between the ethnic Uyghur - once the 
majority in the area - and Han. The central government in Beijing has 
encouraged the emigration of Han to the province in an attempt to "balance out" 
the social reality of Xinjiang, but the ongoing fighting is proof that the 
experiment has failed.

The Uyghurs are Turkic-speaking Muslims: for several decades they have had an 
adversarial relationship with the Chinese central government. After a few 
(unsuccessful) attempts to gain independence as "East Turkestan", the ethnic 
leaders have asked Beijing to be allowed to safeguard their local language, 
culture and religion. The Chinese government - while giving tax breaks and 
social benefits - decided instead to use a heavy hand and launched a campaign 
of repression and control in the whole area. The heavy hand of the regime is 
felt even on the Islamic religious community, suspected of propagating a 
terrorist and fundamentalist vision of Islam. Islamic publications are 
censored,  the sermons of imams controlled and young people under the age of 18 
are banned from attending the mosque.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>