<ID>20141212-79
<DATE>20141212<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang-want-to-ban-burqa:-Could-spark-unrest-32945.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xinjiang want to ban burqa: Could spark unrest
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The burqa, a garment worn by Muslim woman to cover themselves from head-to-toe, is considered a symbol of religious extremism by the local authorities. Authorities already said they would ban the practice of religion in government workplaces, public schools and state-owned enterprises from next year.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews/Agencies) - A proposed burqa ban in the capital city of 
Xinjiang province could spark further unrest in the troubled region, experts 
warn.

The Urumqi People's Congress Standing Committee voted yesterday in favour of 
banning people from wearing the garment in public, the local news website 
Tianshan.net reported.

The proposal must now be reviewed by the regional People's Congress Standing 
Committee before it is implemented, though the report - later deleted from the 
site - did not specify when this would happen.

The burqa, a garment worn by Muslim woman to cover themselves from 
head-to-toe, is considered a symbol of religious extremism by the local 
authorities.

"Burqas are not a traditional Muslim garment in Xinjiang," said Jiang 
Zhaoyong, a Beijing-based expert on ethnic affairs. "The ban has been issued 
following public security concerns. Some people are wearing it not because of 
their religion, but to act out their resentments against society."

Beijing blames religious extremists for a series of attacks that have killed 
hundreds of people in Xinjiang over the past few years.

Xinjiang launched a "beautifying project" in 2011 to discourage women from 
covering their faces and wearing the burqa. Several campaigns against 
producing, selling or wearing the garments have been mounted by county and 
district-level governments in the province.

Last month, Xinjiang said it would ban the practice of religion in government 
workplaces, public schools and state-owned enterprises from next year.

The province is one of the most turbulent in all of China. Its Uighur Muslim 
minority, who number about nine million, have long sought independence from 
China.

The central government, for its part, has brought in millions of settlers to 
make Han Chinese the dominant ethnic group.

At the same time, it has severely curtailed Muslim religious worship as well 
as the teaching of the local language and culture.

Since 2009 Chinese police and the military have held the region under a 
special regime, which Beijing imposed followingclashes that left nearly 200 
people dead 

. As a result of various episodes of violence, hundreds of long prison 
sentences were imposed and dozens of death penalties were carried out.

Chinese authorities blame Muslim extremists for the wave of violence. Uighur 
exiles claim instead that Beijing is "exaggerating" the threat of Islamic 
terrorism to justify repression against indigenous Uighurs.

 

 

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>