<ID>20051017-70
<DATE>20051017<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=4383
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/New-investments-in-oil-sector-4383.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
New investments in oil sector
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
PetroChina, the mainland's biggest oil company, plans to invest 26.2 billion yuan in Xinjiang to increase refining capacity to 10 million tonnes.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies)  PetroChina is the biggest oil company in the 
People's Republic and it is currently planning investments up to September 2007 
in order to boost its refining capacity in the western-most province of 
Xinjiang, said Liu Mingrong, director of Dushanzi Petrochemical. Estimated 
cost: 26.2 billion yuan.

"The project is built mainly to process oil imported from Kazakhstan," Mr Liu 
said, but it is also expected to start producing ethylene as early as the third 
quarter of 2008. Ethylene is used in making plastics, food wrapping and 
electrical insulation.

Mr Liu said PetroChina plans to increase refining capacity at the Dushanzi 
Petrochemical in Xinjiang to 10 million tonnes a year by 2008 from its current 
level of six million.

The project will produce 1.2 million tonnes of ethylene annually up from 
220,000 tonnes now.

According to PetroChina's 2004 report ethylene production rose 1.5 per cent to 
1.85 million tonnes last year over the previous.

PetroChina drills for gas and oil at home but is also exploring abroad to 
compensate for the depletion of its biggest and oldest oil field in Daqing 
which started production back in 1959.

The failure of China's oil companies to match increased demand from economic 
expansion sent imports soaring by 35 per cent last year.

PetroChina's crude oil production rose a mere 0.4 per cent to 777.9 million 
barrels, compared with a 14 per cent upsurge in China's demand over the same 
period. Natural gas output rose instead 21 per cent to 839.4 billion cubic feet 
over the same period.

Production from Daqing fell to 46.4 million tonnes last year from 48.4 million 
tonnes in 2003.

Output from Heilongjiang, which accounts for 50 per cent of PetroChina's 
production and 33 per cent of the nation's total, is being cut to prolong 
Daqing's life. 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>