<ID>20070502-64
<DATE>20070502<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=9147
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Canadian-minister-banned-from-meeting-jailed-Canadian-9147.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Canadian minister banned from meeting jailed Canadian
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Sino-Canadian relations go sour over treatment of a Uighur-Canadian jailed for life and intellectual property laws. China wants to focus on trade, but Canada insists on protecting rights and complains about Chinese spying on its territory.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Canada’s Foreign Minister Peter MacKay, who was 
on a three-day visit to mainland China that ended yesterday, was not allowed to 
see Huseyin Celil, a Chinese-born ethnic Uighur who is also a Canadian citizen. 
For Beijing, Mr Celil, who was sentenced to life in prison by a Chinese court, 
is a Chinese national and as such his fate is an internal matter. Meanwhile in 
Canada,Canada’s spy agency reports that half of its counter-espionage efforts 
target spies from the Chinese mainland.

MacKay’s trip to China had been planned for some time, but the life sentence 
imposed on Celil, aUighur dissident who fled China for Canada where he was 
given refuge and citizenship, changed its nature.

Extradited to China from Uzbekistan, he was jailed for life on charges of 
‘terrorism’ and ‘separatism against China.’

China has denied Canadian diplomats access to him as required by a consular 
treaty between the two nations, because Beijing refuses to recognise Celil's 
Canadian citizenship.

Mr MacKay, meeting his newly appointed counterpart Yang Jiechi, demanded 
consular access to the jailed Canadian citizen but all he could get were 
assurances that Mr Celil had not been tortured.

“Gaining access to Celil is an important issue of this government and we will 
continue to pursue it,” Mr MacKay told the press. "I . . . expressed our deep 
disappointment that we have thus far been denied access to this Canadian 
citizen."

Chinese sources have instead insisted that the case was an internal Chinese 
affair with no connection to Canada.

On a more positive note, Mr MacKay said that, despite the problem, relations 
with China were very important to his country as was greater co-operation in 
every field.

The Celil affair is not the only event that has soured relations between 
Ottawa and Beijing.

Almost half Canada's counter-espionage efforts target spies from the Chinese 
mainland, Jim Judd, the head of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, 
told a Senate committee on Monday.

Another irritant is the Canadian parliament's decision last November to give 
honorary citizenship to the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s spiritual leader who has been 
in exile since China’s invasion, which resulted in President Hu Jintao 
cancelling talks with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper at the Pacific 
Economic Co-operation summit in Hanoi.

In response to the snub, Mr Harper said that whilst Canada wants to promote 
trade relations, “I don't think Canadians want us to sell our important 
Canadian values.”

Last week, Ottawa also asked to take part in World Trade Organisation 
consultations on the application of intellectual property rights in China after 
the US lodged complaints.

For its part, China has complained that Canada has failed so far to extradite 
Lai Changxing, a Chinese businessman it described as its most wanted fugitive 
who fled to Canada with his wife in 1999 after he was accused of corruption and 
smuggling goods worth billions of dollars.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>