<ID>20080110-5
<DATE>20080110<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=11212
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Bird-flu-case-in-Jiangsu-sees-son-infect-the-father-11212.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Bird flu case in Jiangsu sees son infect the father
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The son is dead and the father is under medical care. China’s foreign ministry tries to be reassuring, saying there is no evidence the virus has mutated and made human-to-human transmission possible. With the world’s largest poultry industry China is the world’s greatest incubator for the disease.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – A 24-year-old man died in December in Jiangsu 
from the avian flu and may have passed it on to his father, butthere is no 
evidence the virus mutated into a kind of flu which can be easily transmitted 
from human to human.

“The initial judgment is that it was an infection from close contact,” said 
Chinese Health Ministry spokesman Mao Qun'an. But in the Jiangsu case, there 
were “no biological features for human-to-human transmission.”

What is known is that the father, who got sick just before his son died and is 
now in intensive care, did not come into contact with dead or diseased birds.

It is not known however how the young man who died got infected since he, too, 
is known not have come into contact with infected birds.

The H5N1 strain of the avian flu virus has so far been transmitted by diseased 
birds and this has limited the contagion. But there are fears it might mutate 
and that humans might infect one another. Should this happen the world might 
face a pandemic.

However, the suspected human-to-human infection is also but the latest in a 
number of suspected cases in which people are said to have infected other 
members of their family.

With the world’s biggest poultry population and millions of backyard birds, 
China is at the centre of the fight against bird flu. Millions of animals have 
been vaccinated.

The most recent cases have brought the number of confirmed human infections of 
bird flu in China to 27, with 17 deaths, but there are fears that figures might 
higher because not all cases have been reported.

Another outbreak, on December 29, occurred in the city of Turpan in the remote 
Xinjiang region. It killed almost 5,000 fowl and led to the culling of 35,000 
more.

Since 2003 the H5N1 has killed about 200 people, almost all in Asia, and 
ravaged poultry flocks worldwide, this according to the World Health 
Organisation.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>